{"000-section": {"000-title": "Jharkhand Mukhyamantri SHRAMIK (Shahri Rozgar Manjuri For Kamgar) Yojana Job Card for Urban Poor"}, "001-section": {"000-title": "Jharkhand Mukhyamantri SHRAMIK (Shahri Rozgar Manjuri For Kamgar) Yojana Job Card for Urban Poor, make registration / apply online to get employment in NREGA like job guarantee scheme, check details here", "001-normal": "Table of Contents", "002-listElement": "- Jharkhand Mukhyamantri SHRAMIK Yojana 2020", "003-listElement": "- Shahri Rozgar Manjuri For Kamgar Yojana Registration", "004-listElement": "- MGNREGA Like Job Card in Jharkhand CM Shramik Employment Scheme", "005-listElement": "- Eligibility to Get Urban Job Card", "006-listElement": "- Unemployment Allowance in Case Worker does not get Job", "007-listElement": "- Jharkhand NREGA like Job Guarantee Scheme Implementation", "008-listElement": "- Shahri Rojgar Sevak in Jharkhand CM Job Guarantee Scheme Urban Poor", "009-listElement": "- Employment Opportunities to Urban Poor"}, "002-section": {"000-title": "Jharkhand Mukhyamantri SHRAMIK Yojana 2020", "001-normal": "The formulation of the Jharkhand Mukhyamantri SHRAMIK (Shahri Rozgar Manjuri For Kamgar) Yojana has been done. The Migrant Workers Employment Guarantee scheme in the state will be rolled out once it gets approval from the state cabinet. Like MGNREGS, the new Jharkhand Mukhyamantri Shramik Yojana 2020 will also have a provision for unemployment allowance in case any urban local body fails to provide work to job seekers within 15 days. Moreover, job cards would be provided to registered (enrolled) beneficiaries."}, "003-section": {"000-title": "Shahri Rozgar Manjuri For Kamgar Yojana Registration", "001-normal": "For the Jharkhand Mukhyamantri SHRAMIK Yojana 2020, each worker will have to apply for job through online / offline method. It is expected that the state govt. will launch a dedicated portal for Mukhyamantri Shramik Yojana Registration. Each migrant worker will have to submit the completely filled in Shahri Rozgar Manjuri For Kamgar Yojana application form online or at the concerned departmental office."}, "004-section": {"000-title": "MGNREGA Like Job Card in Jharkhand CM Shramik Employment Scheme", "001-normal": "All the pravasi shramik will be given priority in the works in the existing schemes of the state / central government. In case the labourers could not be accommodated in existing schemes then Jharkhand govt. will make exclusives schemes for this purpose. All the Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) would be given separate funds to create exclusive scheme for employment of migrant workers. CM said that \u201cthere are lots of opportunities of jobs in urban areas right from sanitation work to development projects\u201d.", "002-normal": "Just like labourers in MGNREGS, all the urban workers will also be registered and they would be provided job cards. A special website is also being designed, similar to the website functions in MGNREGS."}, "005-section": {"000-title": "Eligibility to Get Urban Job Card", "001-normal": "Here is the some of the eligibility criteria which needs to be fulfilled to apply for an urban job card:-", "002-listElement": "- The person should be of 18 years and above.", "003-listElement": "- He/she should be staying in urban areas since April 1, 2015.", "004-listElement": "- Applicant shouldn\u2019t have the MNREGA card in rural areas.", "005-listElement": "- Daily wage workers, staying in government shelters, for the last three years would be eligible for the new scheme."}, "006-section": {"000-title": "Unemployment Allowance in Case Worker does not get Job", "001-normal": "Each worker will be entitled to 1/4th of the wages for the first 30 days of un-employment. All the labourers will get 1/2 of the wages in the second month. If the worker does not get a job for third, then these urban poor people will be entitled to wages which is equal to basic minimum wage. The unemployment allowance amount would be transferred directly into the bank account of the poor people in urban areas within 15 days."}, "007-section": {"000-title": "Jharkhand NREGA like Job Guarantee Scheme Implementation", "001-normal": "Jharkhand Shramik Yojana which is a NREGA like scheme for job guarantee will be conducted by the urban development and housing department through the state urban livelihood mission. The Municipal commissioners, executive offices or special officer of municipal bodies will be the nodal officer of the scheme. Several economists have appreciated the concept of the Jharkhand Mukhyamantri SHRAMIK Yojana and termed it as necessary after the influx of migrant workers to the state.", "002-normal": "Till date, there was a perception that poor means rural people. Accordingly, a lot of poor alleviation schemes were launched for rural areas. But there is also a chunk of urban poor and they also need job guarantee like in rural areas for which this CM Employment Guarantee Scheme for Urban poor will serve the purpose."}, "008-section": {"000-title": "Shahri Rojgar Sevak in Jharkhand CM Job Guarantee Scheme Urban Poor", "001-normal": "The state government will create a new post of , who would be employed on a contract basis, at the block or municipality level. The person will oversee new registration of workers under the scheme. An urban job card would be issued to each labourer under the scheme.  \n Urban Job Card to Labourers."}, "009-section": {"000-title": "Employment Opportunities to Urban Poor", "001-normal": "The new Jharkhand CM Job Guarantee Scheme for Urban Poor will help the migrant workers who returned to urban Jharkhand after corona outbreak. More than 5 lakh migrant workers stuck outside the state returned to Jharkhand since May 1 during the coronavirus pandemic spread.", "002-normal": "The Jharkhand state rural development department has done a skill mapping of 2.5 lakh workers. It has revealed that 30% of workers who returned from different states are unskilled labourers.", "003-normal": "Source / Reference Link: https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-to-launch-job-guarantee-scheme-for-urban-poor/story-HZoPx11omvIMknSrz355vI.html"}}