{"search_data": "Central Angikaar Campaign to bring PMAY U Beneficiaries in Ujjwala / Ayushman Bharat FoldMinistry of Housing & Urban Affairs (MoHUA) starts Angikaar Campaign to bring PMAY (U) beneficiaries into Ujjwala & Ayushman Bharat SchemeTable of Contents  Angikaar Campaign by Central GovernmentE-Course on Vulnerability Atlas by MoHUAVulnerability Atlas E-Course RegistrationAngikaar Campaign by Central GovernmentUnder PM Awas Yojana Urban housing scheme, more than 90 lakh houses have already been approved while the demand is of 1.12 crore houses. Around 53.40 lakh houses have been grounded (work started) and more than 27.17 lakh have been completed with an investment of around Rs 5.54 lakh crore and 24.75 lakh houses have been occupied. Angikaar Campaign will reach out to all the beneficiaries of mission in phased manner.Angikaar abhiyan has started in target cities on 2 October 2019 on the eve of 150th Gandhi Jayanti and will culminate on 10 December 2019. The campaign will also include door to door activities, ward and city level events. The central govt. will not just cover beneficiaries under Ujjwala & Ayushman Bharat Scheme but will even offer them with solar energy run devices. These devices includes solar cookers etc. as part of its efforts to develop holistic self sufficient and sustainable urban cluster.The govt. will not only provide beneficiaries of PMAY urban services such as LPG and health insurance but will also provide training on water, energy conservation and waste management practices. Angikaar Campaign aims to develop awareness about resource conservation and citizen-centric urban planning initiatives.Angikaar is a 3 month campaign on social behaviour change and will cover 2,800 urban local bodies (ULBs). This campaign will cover senior citizens, single women, widows, transgenders and person with disabilities. This campaign aims to build capacities of beneficiaries for rain water harvesting, tree plantation, waste management.E-Course on Vulnerability Atlas by MoHUAMinistry of Housing & Urban Affairs (MoHUA) in collaboration of School of Planning & Architecture (SPA) & Building Materials & Technology Promotion Council (BMTPC) has launched E-Course on Vulnerability Atlas. This is a unique course to create awareness on natural hazards, help identify regions with high vulnerability w.r.t hazards like earthquakes, cyclones, landslides, floods, etc.This course will specify district-wise level of damage risks to the existing housing stock. The e-course on vulnerability atlas is going to be a tool for effective & efficient disaster mitigation. This would be done for effective management in the field of Architecture, Civil Engineering, Urban & Regional Planning, Housing & Infrastructure Planning, Construction Engineering & Management and Building & Materials Research.Vulnerability Atlas E-Course RegistrationThe registration for e-course on Vulnerability Atlas of India will be done at SPA website. The direct link to open the official homepage is given below:- www.spa.ac.in.During the inauguration of Construction Technology India (CTI-2019), PM is going to enable \u201cEase of Living\u201d for PMAY (U) beneficiaries. This will emphasize on need to incorporate hazard safety provisions in all construction works. This is going to be a part of 100 days agenda of the central government.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/economy/policy/hua-launches-angikaar-campaign-to-bring-pmayu-beneficiaries-into-ujjawala-ayushman-bharat-fold/articleshow/70897173.cms  at  "}