{"search_data": "Central Ayushman Bharat Yojana Beneficiary List PDF Download @ mera.pmjay.gov.in Ayushman Bharat Yojana (Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana) beneficiary list now available at PMJAY official portal at mera.pmjay.gov.in, check your eligibility for PM Jan Arogya Yojana either by name, mobile number or ration card number and download PDF of Ayushmaan Bharat list of beneficiaries \u0939\u093f\u0902\u0926\u0940 \u092e\u0947\u0902 \u092a\u0922\u093c\u0947\u0902For enrollment confirmation under National Health Protection Scheme (NHPS), people can also call on the PMJAY helpline number at 14555. All the rural and urban beneficiaries can find out whether they are eligible for Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana through this new pmjay.gov.in website or helpline number. This is done to reduce the usage of fake websites which are promising PMJAY enrollment.Table of Contents  Ayushman Bharat Yojana List of Beneficiaries 20191. Ayushman Bharat Beneficiary List PDF Search by Name2. Ayushman Bharat Beneficiary List Download By Ration Card Number3. Ayushman Bharat Yojana Beneficiary List 2019 Search by Mobile NumberPM Jan Arogya Yojana Helpline Number (14555)Ayushman Bharat Yojana List of Beneficiaries 2019Below is the complete procedure to check name in Ayushman Bharat Yojana Final Beneficiaries List (Suchi):-Firstly visit the official \u201cAm I Eligible Portal\u201d at mera.pmjay.gov.inAt the homepage, person has to enter an active mobile number to get OTP to find their name in Ayushman Bharat List of Beneficiaries or PM Jan Arogya Yojana Final Beneficiary List as shown below:-Name Find Ayushman Bharat ListCandidates can click at \u201cGenerate OTP\u201d button to receive OTP on entered mobile number. Users can enter this OTP and click at \u201cSubmit\u201d button to get directed to a \u201cName Find Page\u201c. Here candidates will have to enter the details to find name in Ayushman Bharat Yojana final beneficiaries list as shown below:-Check Name Ayushman Yojana ListHere candidates can adopt the following methods to check whether they are eligible for PM Jan Arogya Yojana \u2013 Search by Name or Search by Ration Card Number or Search by Mobile Number or Search by RSBY URN.1. Ayushman Bharat Beneficiary List PDF Search by NameAs Ayushman Bharat Yojana is an eligibility based scheme so there is no enrollment procedure. The central govt. has automatically selected the Ayushman Bharat Yojana beneficiary list. Any person whose name appears in the Socio-Economic Caste Census (SECC) 2011 Data are eligible beneficiaries of Ayushman Bharat Yojana (PMJAY Scheme). To check name in Final PMJAY Beneficiaries List, candidates can find their details using their SECC Name. In the Name find Page as mentioned above, firstly select the state and then category as \u201cSearch by Name\u201d to find their name in the Ayushman Bharat Scheme beneficiaries list as shown below:-Ayushman Bharat Yojana Beneficiary List PDF Search by Name Here candidates can enter their name, father name, mother name, age, district, village, pin-code and then click at the \u201cSearch\u201d button to find their name in Ayushman Bharat Yojana (PMJAY) beneficiaries list. If the user\u2019s name is showing no results, then the user must contact nearest Ayushman Mitra.2. Ayushman Bharat Beneficiary List Download By Ration Card NumberAn Additional Data Collection Drive (ADCD) is being conducted at various gram sabhas across India. This drive captures active ration card number of family of Socio-Economic Caste Census (SECC) database. In case the individual has got his / her ration card number captured during this drive, then only it will show results on portal.Ayushman Bharat Beneficiary List Download by Ration Card If any individual got his details captured during ADCD drive and no results are shown, then SECC Name should be used for searching.3. Ayushman Bharat Yojana Beneficiary List 2019 Search by Mobile NumberPeople can check their name in the Ayushman Bharat Yojana Beneficiary List 2019 by mobile number:-Ayushman Bharat Yojana List 2019 by Mobile NumberPM Jan Arogya Yojana Helpline Number (14555)People can also call the PMJAY helpline number 14555 to check if they are eligible. Ayushman Mitras assist patients at the empanelled hospitals and coordinate with beneficiaries. These Arogya Mitras are running Help Desk, checking documents to verify eligibility and enrollment to scheme.All the beneficiaries have been issued letters having QR codes which will be scanned and demographic authentication conducted for identification. PMJAY Scheme will target poor, deprived rural families and identified occupational category of urban workers family \u2013 8.03 crore in rural and 2.33 crore in urban areas (as per SECC-2011 database).PMJAY aims to provide Universal Health Coverage of Rs. 5 lakh per family p.a to around 10 crore families (50 crore people). Even their is no restriction on caste, age, income. For more details, visit the official website https://mera.pmjay.gov.in/search/  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: mera.pmjay.gov.in  at  "}