{"search_data": "CentralSRISTI Scheme \u2013 Rooftop Solar Power Plant Subsidy Proposed by Central Govt.SRISTI Scheme \u2013 FeaturesThe important features and highlights of this scheme are as follows:-This Solar Power Plant Subsidy Scheme will provide incentives for the sustainable implementation of Rooftop.Subsequently, this scheme will form the advanced version of the previous MNRE scheme in Phase II.Accordingly, govt. will integrate Discoms to implement this solar subsidy scheme.Central govt. will provide financial assistance to implement rooftop solar power plants for the residential users.Henceforth, users of the residential sectors can install the particular in-line capacity as per their necessity and their SERC (State Electricity Regulation Commission) Regulation.Central govt. will provide subsidy up to 5 KWP capacity of power plant.Furthermore, govt. aims to generate 40,000 MW power with a total outlay of Rs 23,450 crore.SRISTI Scheme \u2013 IncentivesCentral Govt. is going to provide incentives for successful installation of solar projects:-Govt. provides incentives for subsidy to users of the residential sector at Rs. 18,000/KW which will get calculated at benchmark cost of Rs. 60,000/KW.Subsequently, govt. will also provide incentives to the Discoms for various sectors which includes social, institutional, government sectors, commercial and industrial sector. The rates are fixed at Rs. 5,500/KW which govt. will calculate at total cost of Rs. 55,000/KW.Under this solar subsidy scheme, govt. will provide total incentive of Rs. 9000 crore for installation of power plants of 5,000 MW capacity.Moreover, govt. will provide incentives for Discoms of total 14,450 crore for installations of solar rooftops of 35,000 MW.Furthermore, total outlay of this scheme is Rs. 23,450 crore for power generation of 40 GW capacity of solar rooftops.This scheme will increase the use of solar energy in India and residential people can adopt for cleaner electricity generation mechanism.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}