{"search_data": "Central Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana (PMMY) 2020 Application Form (Online / Offline) for Bank LoanApply online for Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana (PMMY) to get bank loans upto Rs. 10 lakh at udyamimitra.in, download Mudra Loan Scheme application form PDF at mudra.org.in, avail shishu, kishor, tarun loans online / offline from banks, check eligibility criteria, list of documents, progress & complete detailsTable of Contents  PM Mudra Yojana (PMMY) 2020 Apply Online Form for Bank LoanPM Mudra Yojana Loan Application Form PDF Download (Offline Method)What is Pradhan Mantri MUDRA Loan YojanaTypes of Loans under Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana (PMMY)Eligibility Criteria for PM Mudra Loan Scheme 2020List of Documents Required for Mudra Yojana Bank LoanCheck Credit Counselling Institutions List 2020PM Mudra Loan Yojana Helpline Number (Contact)Progress of Mudra Loan Scheme till 27 March 2020PM Mudra Yojana (PMMY) 2020 Apply Online Form for Bank LoanMudra Loan Scheme aims to attain development in an inclusive and sustainable manner by supporting and promoting partner institutions. Below is the complete process to apply online by filling Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana Application Form 2020:-Firstly visit the official PMMY website at https://www.udyamimitra.in/Applicant can scroll down the home page and click at \u201cMudra loans\u201d tab or directly click the link here https://www.udyamimitra.in/MudraLoanAt this page, complete information regarding loans under PM Mudra Yojana is present. Scroll down on this page to find the link \u201cClick here to Apply\u201d under \u201cApply for Mudra Loan\u201d section or directly click link below https://site.udyamimitra.in/Login/RegisterThen the PM Mudra Yojana online registration form 2020 will appear as shown below:-PM Mudra Yojana Online Registration FormHere enter the expected loan amount and select scheme name, then the Pradhan Mantri Mudra Loan Yojana Apply Online Form 2020 will appear as below:-PM Mudra Yojana Apply Online FormAccordingly, enter all the details and click at the \u201cRegister\u201d button to complete the Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana online registration process. For more details, click the link \u2013 How to Apply Online for Mudra Loan YojanaThen choose the hand holding support, fill remaining PMMY application form and then apply to the preferred lender as mentioned in the lending institutions list. Your application shall be viewed by many lenders for credit support. Before applying for a loan, view the checklist which can help you to fill up your application faster.PM Mudra Yojana Loan Application Form PDF Download (Offline Method)Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana (PMMY) is open and is available from all Bank branches across the country. All the applicants can even download the PM Mudra Yojana application forms in PDF format through the link given below:- https://www.mudra.org.in/Home/PMMYBankersKitThe PMMY bankers kit to download application forms for Shishu, Tarun & Kishor component under Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana will appear as below:-PMMY Bankers Kit Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana LoanMUDRA Loan Application Form for Shishu Loan Click at the download option in front of \u201cApplication Form for Shishu\u201d in PMMY Bankers Kit to open Shishu Loan Apply Offline Form PDF:-PM Mudra Yojana Shishu Loan Application Form DownloadMUDRA Loan Application Form for Tarun / Kishor Loans Click at the download option in front of \u201cCommon Loan Application form for Kishor and Tarun\u201d in PMMY Bankers Kit to open Kishor / Tarun Loan Apply Offline Form PDF:-Mudra Yojana Kishor Tarun Loan Form PDF DownloadAlso view the checklist for filling PMMY Shishu Loan application form in the PMMY bankers kit.What is Pradhan Mantri MUDRA Loan YojanaMicro Units Development & Refinance Agency Ltd. (MUDRA) is an institution for development and refinancing micro finance institutions such as banks, NBFCs, MFIs and Other financial intermediaries, which are in the business of lending to manufacturing, processing, trading and service sector activities whose credit needs is less than Rs. 10 lakh.MUDRA provides refinance Support to banks, NBFCs / MFIs for PMMY. Other than the refinance product, MUDRA will also provide development support to the sector through other products. The other product offerings as depicted in the diagram below will be targeted across the spectrum of beneficiary segments.MUDRA ProductsWho can avail the MUDRA loan under PMMY All non-farm sector income generating activities such as manufacturing, trading and services whose credit needs below Rs. 10 lakh are known as MUDRA Loans under Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana (PMMY).Types of Loans under Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana (PMMY)However there is certain eligibility criteria to get a loan under MUDRA Yojana. Any individual including women, proprietary concern, partnership firm, private limited company or any other entity are eligible applicant under PMMY loans. Under the aegis of Pradhan Mantri MUDRA Yojana (PMMY), MUDRA has formulated three Schemes to signify the stage of growth / development and funding needs of the beneficiary micro unit / entrepreneur:-Shishu: Loans upto Rs. 50,000. This stage would cater to entrepreneurs who are either in their primitive stage or require lesser funds in order to get their businesses started.Kishor: Loans above Rs. 50,000/- and up to Rs. 5 lakh. This section of entrepreneurs would belong to either those who have already started their business and want additional funds to mobilize their business.Tarun: Loans above Rs. 5 lakh and up to Rs.10 lakh. If an entrepreneur meets the required eligibility conditions, he/she could apply loan for upto Rs.10 lakhs. This would be the highest level of amount that an entrepreneur could apply for a startup loan.The MUDRA loans under the PMMY can be taken from the approved Non Banking Finance Companies (NBFCs), Micro Finance Institutions (MFIs), Public/Private Sector commercial banks and Regional Rural Banks (RRBs) across India. The loans will be sanctioned by the lending institutions as per the eligibility.Eligibility Criteria for PM Mudra Loan Scheme 2020All the applicants must fulfill the basic eligibility criterion to become eligible for bank loans under PM Mudra Yojana 2020. The business should be either one of the following:-Small manufacturing enterpriseShopkeepersFruit and Vegetable vendorsArtisans\u2018Activities allied to agriculture\u2019, e.g. pisciculture, bee keeping, poultry, livestock, rearing, grading, sorting, aggregation agro industries, diary, fishery, agriclinics and agribusiness centres, food & agro-processing, etc.(excluding crop loans, land improvement such as canal, irrigation and wells).List of Documents Required for Mudra Yojana Bank LoanSelf certified copy of identity proof such as Voter ID card / PAN Card / Aadhar Card / Passport / Driving License.Residence proof which may contain recent telephone or electricity bill, property tax receipt (not older than 2 months). Voter\u2019s ID card, Aadhar Card & Passport of the borrower can also act as proof of residence.Proof of SC/ST/OBC/Minority.Copies of relevant licenses/registration certificates/other documents pertaining to the ownership, identity and address of business unit.The applicant should not be a defaulter in any Bank/Financial institution.Statement of accounts (for the last six months), from the existing banker, if any.Balance sheets of the units along with income tax/sales tax return etc of the last 2 years. (Applicable for all cases from Rs. 2 Lacs and above).Projected balance sheets for one year in case of working capital limits and for the period of the loan in case of term loan (Applicable for all cases from Rs. 2 Lacs and above).Project report (for the proposed project) containing details of technical & economic viability.Sales achieved during the current financial year up to the date of submission of application.Memorandum and articles of association of the company/Partnership Deed of Partners etc.Asset & Liability statement from the borrower including Directors & Partners may be sought to know the net-worth in the absence of third party guarantee.2 copies of Photographs of each Proprietor/ Partners/ Directors.Click at the link https://www.udyamimitra.in/Home/Downloads to view checklist for PM Mudra Yojana Bank Loans.Check Credit Counselling Institutions List 2020Finding difficult in filling Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana Loan application, then don\u2019t worry. The portal will help finding the correct person / right agency to fill the form on your behalf. All you need is to fill in basic personal details with request for agency / person (fees may be charged by the agency / person) on udyamimitra portal. This facility is called as HAVE (Handholding in a virtual Environment). So, if you are planning to set up and intend to apply for loans, click at the link below:- https://www.udyamimitra.in/SUHCsUpon clicking this link, select the state, district, area of expertise, agency name and click at the \u201cSearch\u201d button to open the Credit Counselling Institutions List.PM Mudra Loan Yojana Helpline Number (Contact)The borrowers who wish to avail MUDRA loan assistance under PMMY can contact directly to the banks, partnered financial institutions and non banking finance companies or the MUDRA nodal officers. MUDRA has identified a total of 97 Nodal Officers across the country at various SIDBI regional/branch offices to act as \u201cFirst Contact Person\u201d for MUDRA. Below are the links to access the Toll free helpline numbers, list of Nodal officers, banks nodal officers, PMMY mission office contact details and PMMY offices in Mumbai.PMMY Toll Free Numbers Bank\u2019s Nodal Officer \u2013 PMMY MUDRA Nodal Officers MUDRA Officers \u2013 Mumbai PMMY Mission office Contact DetailsProgress of Mudra Loan Scheme till 27 March 2020Financial Year \u2013 2015 to 2020 Total Number of PMMY Loans Sanctioned \u2013 24.09 crore (24,09,48,705) Amount Sanctioned \u2013 12.17 lakh crore (12,16,951.58 crore) Amount Disbursed \u2013 11.82 lakh crore (11,82,615.02 crore)The state wise details of loans/money sanctioned under the PM MUDRA Yojana can be found at http://www.mudra.org.in/PMMYReportFor further information on PM MUDRA YOJANA, please visit official website at: https://mudra.org.in/ or https://www.udyamimitra.in/  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: mudra.org.in, udyamimitra.in  at  "}