{"search_data": "Central, Uttar PradeshUPAVP Invites Applications Under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana on First Come First Serve BasisThe property camps for application/registration of flats would organized at different locations on 03, 04 and 10, 11 June where interested applicants can visit and inquire about the scheme or registration of flats. Details of the camps can be found in the advertisement published by UPAVP at the link below.UPAVP PMAY AdvertisementThe credit linked subsidy component of the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana offers subsidy on interest rate of home loans taken for the purchase of home. The subsidy percentage for EWS, LIG and MIG categories is as following.\u2013 6.5% on home loan up to 6 Lakh for EWS (income of up to Rs. 3 Lakh per annum) for house area of up to 30 Square meter \u2013 6.5% on home loan up to 6 Lakh for LIG for (income between Rs. 3 Lakh & 6 Lakh per annum) for house area of up to 60 Square meter \u2013 4% on home loan up to 9 Lakh for MIG-1 for (income between Rs. 6 Lakh & 12 Lakh per annum) for house area of up to 90 Square meter \u2013 3% on home loan up to 12 Lakh for MIG-2 for (income between Rs. 12 Lakh & 18 Lakh per annum) for house area of up to 110 Square meterThe subsidy would be provided for a maximum tenure of 20 years. Below is the eligibility criteria for the scheme. More details about the PMAY home loans is available at the links below.PMAY Home Loan for EWS/LIG PMAY Home Loan for MIGPMAY CLSS Eligibility CriteriaThe applicant should not have any pucca house in his/her name or in the name of any family member anywhere in the country.The total household income should not exceed the amount set under different categories.The beneficiary should not have already taken any benefit from government housing scheme.Below is the link to access the advertisement of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana flats allotment by UPAVP. UPAVP PMAY AdvertisementThe candidates who have applied through pmaymis.gov.in can also take benefit of the scheme.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}