{"search_data": "Central SWAYAM Free Online Course Registration 2020 & Login at swayam.gov.inComplete procedure for Swayam online courses registration, login and course enrollment at www.swayam.gov.in, know the eligibility, courses list, exam dates and helpline details of Swayam PortalTable of Contents  SWAYAM Registration at swayam.gov.inSWAYAM List of CoursesSwayam Mobile AppSWAYAM \u2013 CoordinatorsFrequently Asked Question & AnswersSwayam HelplineSWAYAM Registration at swayam.gov.inBelow is the step by step procedure to complete Swayam portal registration with screenshots. Follow the steps 1 through 5 to complete your registration at swayam.gov.in and start learning.Step 1: Go to official website on SWAYAM Portal at https://swayam.gov.inStep 2: Then click on \u201cSIGN IN / REGISTER\u201d button on the top right corner as given in the below image.Swayam Online RegistrationStep 3: A new page will open, click the \u201cSign up now\u201d link below the login form as given in the below image.Swayam Sign-up LinkStep 4: Fill all the required details in the form including the verification code received on email by clicking the \u201cSend Verification Code\u201d button and submit the form by clicking on \u201cCREATE\u201d button at the bottom.Swayam Registration FormStep 5: Your registration on Swayam portal is complete and you can now login and start learning.After login on this portal, you can access and learn the desired courses. The portal shows you the name of all the courses and the name of professors and their experiences. The list of Swayam courses can be accessed at the below link.SWAYAM List of CoursesThe list of Swayam courses being offered can be accessed using the below link. The Swayam portal facilitates hosting of all the courses, taught in classrooms from Class 9 till post-graduation to be accessed by anyone, anywhere at any time at www.swayam.gov.in. Swayam Courses ListThis portal provide you a dashboard where learners can update their information and enroll in the free online courses. Swayam Mobile AppRegistered candidates can also access all the Swayam courses on its mobile app which is available at the google play store for android mobile phones.Here is the link from where the mobile app of Swayam can be downloaded: Swayam App DownloadSWAYAM \u2013 Coordinators9 National Coordinators as given below have been appointed to produce best quality content for students of various streams.AICTE (All India Council for Technical Education) for self-paced and international coursesNPTEL (National Programme on Technology Enhanced Learning) for EngineeringUGC (University Grants Commission) for non technical post-graduation educationCEC (Consortium for Educational Communication) for under-graduate educationNCERT (National Council of Educational Research and Training) for school educationNIOS (National Institute of Open Schooling) for school educationIGNOU (Indira Gandhi National Open University) for out-of-school studentsIIMB (Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore) for management studiesNITTTR (National Institute of Technical Teachers Training and Research) for Teacher Training programmeFrequently Asked Question & AnswersWhat is Swayam Portal & How to Access it? Swayam is a government initiative to provide free online courses / study material of multiple streams to students across the country. It can be accessed at www.swayam.gov.in.Who can register at Swayam Portal? Anyone in the world who wish to learn something can register at Swayam Portal.How can I access the complete Swayam courses list? The complete list of Swayam courses can be accessed category-wise on the course page on Swayam portal itself.Who provides the study content on Swayam Portal? There are 9 nation coordinators who provides study content on swayam portal with the help of over 1000 qualified tutors.What courses are available at Swayam Portal? Swayam Portal is designed to provide courses from Class 9th till Postgraduation.What are the prerequisite for Swayam Registration? Only a valid E-mail ID is required for Swayam registration and verification.What is the registration and course fee on Swayam Portal? Registration and courses are completely free on Swayam portal for all.What is the eligibility for a given course? Eligibility for each course is given on the course detail page on www.swayam.gov.inSwayam HelplineAnyone who needs any help regarding the registration / login or enrollment at www.swayam.gov.in portal can reach at the below helpline details. Helpline Number: 1800 121 9025 Helpline Email: support@swayam.gov.inThe students and teachers can learn courses and receive a certificate that is valid in any institution for a job purpose. The portal provides best quality content for students from schooling till post-graduation. The courses on SWAYAM are produced and delivered by NPTEL for engineering, UGC for post-graduation education, CEC for under-graduate education, NCERT & NIOS for school education, IGNOU for out of the school students and IIMB for management studies.For more detail about Swayam online free courses, please visit on the portal at https://swayam.gov.in  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}