{"search_data": "Madhya PradeshStudents with 80% Marks in CBSE \u2013 Eligible for MP Mukhamantri Medhavi Vidyarthi Yojana80% Marks in CBSE (12th) \u2013 Eligible for MP Mukhyamantri Medhavi Vidyarthi Yojana (MMVY)The new eligibility criteria for MP Medhavi Vidyarthi Protsahan Yojana is defined below:-12th from CBSE Board \u2013 Students who have passed XII standard from CBSE Board with at-least 80% marks (previously 85%) will be eligible for MP Medhavi Vidyarthi Protsahan Yojana.12th from MP Board \u2013 Students passing 12th from MP Board with at-least 70% marks (previously 75%) will be eligible for MP Mukhyamantri Medhavi Vidyarthi Yojana (MMVY).All the students whose parental annual income is less than Rs. 6 lakh can avail benefits of Medhavi Chhatra Yojana in MP.All the candidates can fill the online application form for Medhavi Chhatra Yojana Registration 2018 at scholarshipportal.mp.nic.in . At the portal, candidates can also check their Applications, Application which are recommended for sanction, Application pending with institutes, Amount sanctioned and applications pending at DTE ePayment order.MP Medhavi Vidyarthi Protsahan Yojana AnnouncementThis announcement was made in Khandwa district in Madhya Pradesh. While addressing the public meeting, CM said \u201ca children has written a letter to him, he asked CM that when the eligibility for students from MP Board is reduced from 75% to 70%, then why is not so for the CBSE students. Then CM announces that he is going to reduce the eligibility for 12th students from CBSE board by 5%. It will now remain 80% marks instead of 85% in XII class in CBSE\u201d.MP Medhavi Vidyarthi Protsahan Yojana Eligibility CBSE StudentsCM has also announced to setup a new hospital of 500 beds in Khandwa district in MP. CM has inaugurated Medical College Building with an investment of Rs. 200 crore and announces to provide additional Rs. 300 crore for medical equipment. The state govt. also plans to open BSC Nursing College. After 1964, there is no new medical college established in the state and his govt. is first to do so. This will resolve the problem of shortage of doctors in the state.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}