{"search_data": "DelhiDelhi E-Mart Portal for Artisans | Digital Monitoring of Van Dhan Start-UpsDelhi E-Mart Portal for Artisans to launch, digital monitoring of Van Dhan Start-Ups, aim is to connect 5 lakh tribals to buyers directly, value addition to forest produce at the Van Dhan Vikas Kendras (VDVKs) at the village levelDelhi E-Mart Portal for ArtisansOn 16 June 2020, Delhi govt. has commissioned on trial an E-Mart Portal for artisans. This website will give all details, statistics and real-time information of the VDVKs. Moreover, E-Mart Artisans Portal will also enable GPS linkages to connect those executing the activities in the villages to those who are digitally monitoring the scheme in the states and in the central government.Digital Monitoring of Van Dhan Star-UpsAfter the trial run of digital monitoring of Van Dhan Start-Ups till 30 June 2020, a formal launch of E-Mart Portal is expected. Around 1205 Van Dhan Startups have been established so far to provide employment opportunities to 3.6 lakh tribal gatherers and around 18,000 Self Help Groups in around 22 states. The main aim of the Start-ups scheme is to increase the coverage to around 10 lakh tribal gatherers.This would be done through the Covid-19 relief plan of the ministry of tribal affairs of central government. Around Rs. 15 lakh from central govt. has been provided to each of these VDVKs centres. Till date, around 25% to 30% of this grant has been spent by VDVKs on activities such as purchase of raw materials, labour costs etc.In case of Nagaland, approx. 3.5 crore worth of sales of products have already happened under the Van Dhan Startup scheme. Around 2000 products have been identified throughout the country that have marketing potential. Certain examples of products includes wild honey, hill broom grass sticks, donna pattal, coffee, bay leaf, bel pulp among others.Manipur state has 77 Van Dhan Kendras acting as case study as it has adopted food safety and hygiene standards at all its centres to enable standardization.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/govt-to-launch-e-mart-for-artisans-digital-monitoring-for-van-dhan-start-ups/articleshow/76392485.cms  at  "}