{"search_data": "CentralPost Office Savings Account 2020 \u2013 Interest Rate / Calculator / Tax Benefit / ATM CardTable of Contents  Post Office Savings Account Opening Form \u2013 Procedure and DocumentsPost Office Savings Account Interest Rate vs Other SchemesEligibility for Post Office New Savings Account & WithdrawalBenefits of Post Office Savings AccountPost Office Savings Account Features \u2013 Highlights at a GlanceReferencesPost Office Savings Account Opening Form \u2013 Procedure and DocumentsPeople can open this type of savings account with minimum account balance of only Rs. 500 (in cash only) at any post office. Moreover, to maintain a non-cheque facility account, the maintaining balance of savings account is only Rs. 50 only. Any individual account holder can deposit maximum Rs. 1 lakh in this account while maximum amount is Rs. 2 lakh for joint account holders.The most striking features of Post Office Savings Account is that there is no lock-in / maturity period. In addition to this, people can also opt for opening savings account with Rs. 500 to avail cheque and ATM facility. Cheque facility available if an account is opened with INR 500/- and for this purpose minimum balance of INR 500/-in an account is to be maintainedProcedure for Opening Savings Account in Post Office \u2013 It is a very simple process to open a new saving account in any post office branch:-Candidates can purchase savings account application form any post office or can download it online through the link below:- https://www.indiapost.gov.in/VAS/DOP_PDFFiles/form/SB-3.pdfPost Office Savings Bank Account Opening FormFill the Savings Account Application Form and submit the form along with KYC documents and recent photograph. The PO Savings Bank Account KYC Form can be downloaded in PDF format using the link below:- https://www.indiapost.gov.in/VAS/DOP_PDFFiles/form/KYC.pdfPost Office Savings Bank Account KYC FormThen subscribers will have to make payment equals to the amount they want to deposit (minimum Rs. 500). After payment the account will open.Furthermore, there are separate forms for senior citizens to avail this scheme benefits.List of Documents \u2013 Candidates must submit the following documents along with the completed application form to open their new savings account:-ID Proof \u2013 Electoral Photo Identity card (Voter Card), Aadhaar Card, Ration Card, Passport, Driving License, Photo Identity Card from School / University, PSU, Identity card issued by Central / State Government.Address Proof \u2013 Bank or Post Office Passbook,Passport, Ration Card, Electricity Bill, Telephone Bill, Salary Slip, Aadhaar Card.1 Recent passport Size Photograph. In case of Joint Account, photographs of all joint account holders.Post Office Savings Account Interest Rate vs Other SchemesAll the subscribers can check the Post Office Interest Rates Table for 1 January 2020 to 31 March 2020 before opening of India Post Office Saving Account. Compare PPF vs NSC vs KVP vs SCSS vs SSY vs MIS vs TD vs RD vs Savings Account. Post Office Interest Rates Table 2020Post Office Savings SchemeInterest RatePublic Provident Fund (PPF)7.9% compounded yearlySenior Citizen Savings Scheme (SCSS)8.6% p.a from 31 March / 30 Sept / 31 DecemberKisan Vikas Patra (KVP)7.6% compounded yearlySukanya Samriddhi Yojana (SSY)8.4% p.a compounded annuallyPost Office Monthly Income Scheme (MIS)7.6% per year payable monthlyNational Savings Certificate (NSC)7.9% compounded p.a but payable at maturityPost Office Savings Bank Account4% p.aTime Deposit Account (TD)6.9% to 7.7% p.a calculated quarterlyPost Office Recurring Deposit Account (RD)7.2% p.a compounded quarterlyEligibility for Post Office New Savings Account & WithdrawalThe candidates must fulfill the following eligibility criteria to open savings account in post office:-Any Individual Adult.Minors above the age of 10 years can apply.Any guardian can open this account on the behalf of a minor.Any Person with unsound mind is also permissible to open his savings account.Moreover, there is also a facility to open joint account by 2 or 3 individuals having equal share.In this Post Office Savings Scheme \u2013 group accounts, institutional accounts, security deposit accounts and Official capacity accounts are not allowed.Post Office Savings Account Withdrawal \u2013 There is no lock in or maturity period in this savings scheme, so any individual can withdraw his money anytime. However, the person has to maintain minimum balance of Rs. 50 (for non-cheque facility account) and Rs. 500 (for cheque facility account).Benefits of Post Office Savings AccountAll the subscribers can avail various benefits of this type of saving account like Cheque Facility, ATM / Debit Card:- Cheque Facility \u2013 Cheque book is available at the time of opening of account. For this candidates have to make an initial deposit of Rs. 500. Moreover, all the existing account holders can also avail the cheque book facility. Hence, they have to maintain a minimum balance of Rs. 500 in their account and make a request for check book issuance.Post Office ATM Card / Debit Card \u2013 All those subscribers maintaining the minimum balance in their saving account are entitled to get Post Office ATM Card through CBS Post Offices.Minor Accounts \u2013 Minors below 10 years can also open their Post Office Saving Account in their name. However, the rights to operate the account still remain available to the parents. Minors with 10 years or above age can operate their account on their own.Portability \u2013 People can transfer their savings account from one branch to another in case of change in address or some other reason. Moreover if people wants to know how to transfer money from bank account to post office account, then they can get assistance at post office Branch.Nomination \u2013 People can choose their nominee at the time of opening of their saving account in post office. Moreover, existing account holders can also choose their nominee after the opening of account.Joint Holdings \u2013 Under Joint Account facility, 2 or 3 adults can open an account together. Moreover, individuals can also convert their single account to joint account and vice versa.Tax Exemptions \u2013 The interest upto Rs. 10,000 of Post Office Savings Account is exempted from tax under 80L of IT Act.Electronic Facilities \u2013 Individuals can make savings account withdrawal through electronic mode in CSBS Post offices.Inactivity Period \u2013 All the subscribers needs to make only 1 transaction in 3 years to keep their account alive. If there is not a single transaction in the previous 3 years, only then the account becomes inactive.Post Office Savings Account Features \u2013 Highlights at a GlanceThe important features and highlights of Post Office Saving Account Scheme are as follows:-Post Office Savings Account Interest RateMin. Initial Deposit / Maintaining Balance (with or without cheque book)4% p.a (individual as well as joint account)Minimum Initial Deposit for Account Opening is Rs. 500, Maintenance Balance without cheque book is Rs. 50 while it is Rs. 500 for cheque book enabled accounts.Post Office Savings Accounts HighlightsIndividual can open this savings account through making initial deposit in cash only.In Non Cheque Facility, maintaining balance is Rs. 50.Cheque Facility is applicable only when the account is opened with Rs. 500. So subscribers will have to maintain minimum balance of Rs. 500.In addition to this, all the account holders can avail this cheque facility in existing accounts also.People can determine their interest per annum through use of Post Office Savings Calculator. All the interest earned up to Rs. 10,000 is tax free from FY 2012-13.All the account holders can easily make nomination while opening of account or after opening savings account.Even these saving account are transferable from 1 post office to other.However, any individual can open only one account in single post office.This Savings account can be opened in the name of minor. Moreover, minor above 10 years of age have the right to operate their own account.2 or 3 adults together can open a Joint Account. For this, all the account holders needs to submit their recent photographs.To keep savings account active, it is necessary to make at-least 1 transaction in 3 financial years.Any individual account holder can convert his / her account to Joint account.After attaining the age of 10 years, minor have to convert this savings account in their name.People can perform electronic deposits and withdrawals through CBS Post offices. Moreover, candidates can make post office account balance enquiry at the post offices.People can also avail ATM facility in this type of account.References\u2014 For more details, visit the official website indiapost.gov.in  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}