{"search_data": "OdishaBiju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana (BSKY) in Odisha \u2013 Rs. 5 lakh Health Insurance for PoorOdisha Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana 2018 \u2013 Health Insurance SchemeThe state govt. has launched 3 new schemes Universal Health Coverage Scheme, Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana & Drop Back Assistance. The important features and highlights of this Health Insurance Scheme are as follows:-Universal Health Coverage (UHC) \u2013 Under this Universal Health Coverage (UHC) Scheme, every citizen who make visit to any Government Health Institution from District to Sub-Center level will get all health services free to cost. This includes waiver of all Users Fees at public health facilities upto District Headquarter Hospitals. Govt. will provide Free Healthcare Services at all Public Health Facilities.Assistance under Biju Swasthya Kalyana Yojana \u2013 Govt. will provide Rs. 5 lakh per family per annum for all Secondary and Tertiary Cashless Health Care Assistance. Women beneficiaries can get health cover upto Rs. 7 lakh. This scheme will benefit 3.5 crore people (70 lakh families) at any govt. and private empanelled hospitals.Drop Back Assistance \u2013 Under this Drop-back for Pregnant Women & Sick Infants, govt. will provide Rs. 500 to all pregnant women and infant who visit all Public Health Facilities. This drop-back assistance will help citizens to take transport back home after delivery / treatment in hospitals.Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana 2018All beneficiaries currently enrolled under the Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana (RSBY), Biju Krushak Kalyan Yojana (BKKY), as well as other low-income families, are covered under the BSKY.Official NotificationAll the 3 initiatives are launched by the State govt. from 15 August 2018. Out of the total 3.5 crore beneficiaries, there are total number of 1.5 crore women beneficiaries. The official notification is shown below:-Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana Health Insurance Scheme This health protection cover will be given in all public health facilities and 30 empanelled private hospitals.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}