{"search_data": "CentralNational Biofuel Policy 2018 on Biofuels by Central Govt. with 1 Trillion InvestmentNational Biofuel Policy 2018 \u2013 FeaturesThe important features and highlights of this new national policy on biofuels are as follows:-This new national policy on biofuels will shift the focus from first generation (1G) biofuels which are based on sugar. 1G biofuels are made from molasses and vegetable oils and thus are polluting in nature.Subsequently, Biofuel Policy India will enable utilization of other kinds of feedstock like cellulose based and lignocellulose materials. Accordingly, it will lead to \u201cWaste to Wealth\u201d economy.New National Biofuel Policy 2018 will ensure cost-effective and pollution free import substitute of polluting fossil fuels.Accordingly, lignocellulosic biomass / woody crops, agricultural residues and municipal waste gets converted to advanced 2G biofuels.At present, level of ethanol blending in petrol is 2.5 per cent. Various Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs) are running Ethanol Blending Programme (EBP). Moreover, govt. will authorize OMCs to sell EBP with ethanol percentage upto 10% under Ethanol Policy India.National Biofuel Policy 2018 will eliminate the problem of land use and other issues related to food security used in production of 1G biofuels.Furthermore, govt. will implement this National Biofuel Policy 2018 in a mission mode to make our environment pollution free.National Biofuel Policy 2018 \u2013 IncentivesCentral govt. will provide incentives to all state-run oil marketing companies. These OMCs has made an agreement of long-term offtake of 2G ethanol under Biofuel Policy India. For this reason, OMCs are assuring suppliers for 15-year offtake contracts. Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) has recently signed an agreement with Punjab government. Under this agreement, IOC will establish various CNG plants in Punjab in upcoming 5 years.In addition to this, OMCs are going to set up 12 advanced biofuel refineries in several states. IOC is currently operating 3 biofuel plants and plans to increase its capacity from 100 tonnes to 1200 tonnes per day in next 2 years.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}