{"search_data": "Tamil NaduAmma Bio-Fertilizers Scheme & Uzhavan App for Farmers in TamilnaduAmma Bio-Fertilizers SchemeOn the name of late CM J. Jayalalithaa, TN govt. has renamed this scheme as Amma Bio-Fertilizers Scheme. Bio Fertilizers are just a supplement to the inorganic fertilizers as it is not possible to replace them altogether. These bio-fertilizers are of 2 types \u2013 carrier based and liquid based.Carrier based incorporation of micro-organisms enables easy-handling, long-term storage facility and high effectiveness of bio fertilizers. Carrier based bio-fertilizers contains effective micro-organisms which strengthen the roots of plants.Liquid bio fertilizers generally possess a longer shelf life which is around 12 to 24 months. These are produced in 12 production units having capacity of 6 lakh litres p.a. In 2016-2017, govt. distributes around 2,999 MT of carrier based and 2.71 lakh ltr liquid bio-fertilizers.There should be a proper balance between the beneficial living organisms and the outside environment to ensure excellent health of plants. Soil always consists of microbes which should be retained for good yield. The state govt. is making every possible effort to assure organic plant health. For this reason, TN govt. focuses on using bio-control agents and parasites for the control of pests and diseases under Amma Bio-Fertilizers Scheme.Uzhavan Mobile App for FarmersThis mobile app will allow farmers to avail 9 types of services which also includes crop insurance details. Any person can download this bi-lingual app from Google Playstore. Through this application, farmers will get info. on farm subsidies, booking farm equipment, related infrastructure, crop insurance details along with weather forecast for next 4 days.To directly install the Mobile App \u2013 Click HereAmma Bio Fertilizers Scheme Uzhavan AppAt the official launch event, CM also handed farm machinery (tractors) to the farmers having total cost of Rs. 14.10 crore. Govt. will provide these equipments at nominal rent. In addition, CM also inaugurated an eco-park at Agastheeswaram on NH-47 with total cost of Rs 15 crore. TN govt. will also open a new dormitory for children of construction workers at Thaiyur village in Kancheepuram district.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}