{"search_data": "West BengalBangla Shashya Bima Yojana West Bengal \u2013 BSB Crop Insurance Scheme for Farmers West Bengal govt. launches Bangla Shashya Bima Yojana for Kharif 2019 season, BSB scheme in WB to provide crop insurance to farmers for aman paddy, aus paddy, jute & maize with zero premium amountWB Bangla Shashya Bima Scheme 2019 (Crop Insurance)Here are the important features and highlights of Bangla Sasya Bima (BSB) Scheme:-Type of Scheme \u2013 Bangla Sashya Bima Scheme is a crop insurance scheme for farmers.Company to Provide Insurance \u2013 Agriculture Insurance Company of India.Districts Covered \u2013 Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Purba Bardhaman, Paschim Bardhaman, Purba Medinipur, Malda, Hooghly, Nadia, Murshidabad, Cooch Behar, Birbhum, Purulia, Dakshin Dinajpur, North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas.Premium Amount \u2013 Free of cost for farmers as WB state govt. will pay full premiumCrops Covered for Insurance \u2013 BSB scheme in West Bengal to cover aman paddy, aus paddy, jute and maize.Eligible Beneficiaries \u2013 All farmers taking loans (granted / applied for) and even those not taking loans can avail Bangla Shasya Bima Scheme insurance benefits.Stages for Payment of Insurance \u2013 Under West Bengal Bangla Shashya Bima Yojana, the insurance would be paid in 4 stages as mentioned below:-For any losses suffered during plantingLosses suffered during cultivationThe losses occurred during the period post-cutting when crops are lying in the fieldLosses caused due to adverse weather situations.Amount Calculation \u2013 The state govt. of West Bengal will decide the amount of insurance which would be calculated on per hectare basis.This BSB crop insurance scheme will enable farmers to cover up their losses in case their crops gets damaged due to any reason. The state govt. wants to raise the annual income of the farmers and to enable them to lead a life of dignity and honour.Farmers plays a very important role in the GDP of the state as well of the entire country. So, the state govt. is focusing on raising their living standards which will ensure higher GDP in the coming years.Furthermore, West Bengal govt. wants to reduce the suicide rate of farmers which occurs when farmers suffers from losses in agriculture. West Bengal Bangla Shashya Scheme will also prevent farmers from falling into debt trap.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/economy/agriculture/west-bengal-launches-free-crop-insurance-scheme-for-farmers/articleshow/69985239.cms  at  "}