{"search_data": "Central Krishi Kisan Mobile App Download From Google Play StoreKrishi Kisan Mobile App download from google play store, farmers to avail benefits of crops demonstration, seed hubs, minikits distribution & weather advisories, CHC Farm Machinery App also launched to hire tractors, agricultural machineries & equipments \u0939\u093f\u0902\u0926\u0940 \u092e\u0947\u0902 \u092a\u0922\u093c\u0947\u0902Krishi Kisan Mobile App DownloadEvery farmer can now utilize services available at Krishi Kisan Mobile App for the betterment of their cultivation methods. This will ensure higher agricultural productivity for farmers & will raise their income. Farmers can take benefits of field demonstration of new farm technologies, seed hubs and weather advisories. The link to download Krishi Kisan App from google playstore is given below:- Krishi Kisan App Download Google PlaystoreFor better accessibility of plots for crops demonstration, mini-kit distribution & seed hubs, it is mandatory to have geo-tagging of these plots across the country. For this purpose, a new mobile app has been developed which is available on NFSM website. This Krishi Kisan App is of 6.6 Mb size which requires android version of 4.1 and up.The current version is 1.0 and is developed by MeitY, Government of India. This Krishi Kisan Mobile App after downloading & installation can be used to located concerned demonstration plots and farmers field location. Moreover, govt. can prepare an annual action plan, make budget allocation & can properly monitor the scheme.Krishi Kisan Mobile App Google Play StoreThis Krishi Kisan App is a big leap forward towards the Digital Agriculture. CHC Farm Machinery App also launched to hire tractors, agricultural machineries & equipments on rent like Ola, Uber.Krishi Kisan App Benefits & ImplementationCrops Division of DAC&FW is undertaking the following activities through various Crops Development Programmes:-Cluster demonstrations on pulses by KVKs, ICARCluster demonstrations by state governmentsFront Line Demonstrations (FLDs) conducted by ICAR Institutions on rice, wheat, pulses, coarse-cereals and nutri-cerealsMinikit-demonstrations on farmers fieldSeed production by seed hub centres of pulses and nutri-cerealsKrishi Kisan Mobile app has been developed to help farmers by quickly providing them with necessary information. With just one click of a button, farmers can get the information on demonstration in nearest area and Seed Minikit distribution in their area.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}