{"search_data": "Tamil NaduAmma Free Wi-Fi Hotspot Zones \u2013 Direct Networks Connection in TNAmma Free Wi-Fi Hotspot ZonesIn the first phase, 5 areas will have access to free wi-fi networks. All the people in the vicinity of these areas can open their mobile wi-fi connection and search for the hotspots. The hotspot will appear in the name of \u201cAmma Wi-Fi\u201d and then enter the password (releasing shortly). TN govt. has launched this free high speed networks facility in the following areas which are as follows:-Labour Statue, Marina Beach, ChennaiCentral Bus Stand, SalemCentral Bus Stand, TiruchirapalliGandhipuram Bus Stand, CoimbatoreMattuthavani Bus Stand, MaduraiAfterwards, candidates can surf internet free for the first 20 minutes every day. Thereafter, each beneficiary will have to pay Rs. 10 per hour to continue surfing and downloading things. After successful roll-out of this free wi-fi zones in these areas, govt. will implement this scheme in other areas like parks, commercial complexes also.How To Connect to Amma Free Wi-FiBelow is the procedure to connect with Amma Wi-Fi Hotspot:-In any of the above mentioned areas, turn on your wi-fi connection.Next you will see a network connection in the name \u201cAmma wi-fi\u201d. Connect it and then a login page appears.Here candidates will have to enter their mobile number and e-mail id on which they receive an OTP.After entering OTP, you will get connected but it is free only for 20 minutes duration.After 20 minutes, the direct network connection will stop and a payment page will appear.Here candidates can select a Rs. 10 (1 hour) or Rs. 20 (2 hour) package and make payment through debit / credit / netbanking.State-run Tamil Nadu Arasu Cable TV Corporation (TACTV) has been assigned the responsibility to provide direct wi-fi networks and to handle any technical glitches. Tamil Nadu CM has allotted a sum of Rs. 8.50 crore for this scheme. Govt. will also gather information on user experience to update the services.In addition to this, CM also inaugurates other developmental works like new buildings constructed in colleges. Furthermore, CM also presented the final appointment letters to 275 persons in TN Housing Board.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}