{"search_data": "Rajasthan[Apply] Swasthya Mitra Job Vacancy in Rajasthan | Affordable Health MissionApply for 80,000 Swasthya Mitra Job Vacancy in Rajasthan under Affordable Health Mission, check salary, duties & selection process for Health MitrasTable of Contents  Rajasthan Swasthya Mitra Job Vacancies ApplySelection Process for Swasthya Mitras in RajasthanDuties of Swasthya Mitras in Rural Areas in RajasthanRajasthan Swasthya Mitra Job Vacancies ApplyThere are more than 40,000 villages in Rajasthan and now govt. will deploy 2 Swasthya Mitras (1 man & 1 woman) in each village under Affordable Health Mission. A total of 80,000 Swasthya Mitra Job Vacancy in Rajasthan are on offer. The state govt. will select Swasthya Mitra on voluntary basis from each village to provide help and support at the earliest possible time to the needy people. Many diseases and conditions are controllable and can be completely cured if detected and treated early and in an appropriate manner.Selection Process for Swasthya Mitras in RajasthanThe Swasthya Mitras would be selected in Rajasthan through a process that is defined below:-Interaction with the local village body (Panchayat/ Ward Members) to identify people who can read and write. They must not be qualified beyond 10+2. These people will include only those who does not not have any opportunity to seek either Govt or Private jobs and employment for them is a big challenge. They should come from a poor to lower middle-class family and should have an attitude to serve.Psychometric Assessment test would be conducted to select the candidates to become Swasthya Mitras with the attitude to serve people and they must be connected to the soil.Personal Interview will also be conducted to select appropriate candidates.All the Swasthya Mitras who would be selected from villagers must have knowledge of all central and state govt. health schemes and policies.Duties of Swasthya Mitras in Rural Areas in RajasthanAll the selected Swasthya Mitras will have to perform the following duties after their training is completed:-Identification of wide range of diseases based on the signs and symptoms.Help and guide the patients as to which Specialty / Dept is the best for treatment of needy people.On the spot checking Blood Pressure (BP) and suggesting dietary and lifestyle changes that are needed to control it.Checking Blood Sugar level and suggesting appropriate diet and exercise to control it.Providing Injections and IV line.Stitching of cuts, dressing of wounds and Physiotherapy.Rajasthan Swasthya Mitra Job Vacancy 2020As per the health department officials, the role of Swasthya Mitras is to bridge gap b/w govt. officials and patients. Moreover, Health Mitras will create awareness about diseases under Nirogi Rajasthan Scheme. The recent Swasthya Mitra 80,000 Job Vacancy in Rajasthan will bring down the infant mortality rate (IMR) and maternal mortality rate (MMR). Other health indicators like immunization, institutional deliveries, ante-natal checkups will also improve.Swasthya Mitras will encourage people of Rajasthan to adopt family planning measures. Moreover, the selected rural candidates will also play an instrumental role in preventing spread of vector borne diseases like dengue, malaria, chikungunya.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/jaipur/govt-set-to-deploy-80000-swasthya-mitras-in-rural-areas/articleshow/73208973.cms  at  "}