{"search_data": "Central Swachh Manch Web Portal | Ease of Living Index to be Launched by MoHUAEase of Living Index \u2013 DetailsCentral govt. will launch Ease of Living Index along with an Ease of Living Index dashboard. The important features of highlights of ELI Program are as follows:-In this initiative, govt. would provide national ranking of 111 cities.ELI Dashboard will give ranking to the cities across pillars, category, geographical zones and population classifications.Ease of Living framework will include 4 pillars \u2013 Institutional, Social, Economic and Physical. These pillars will be further classified into 15 categories and 78 indicators.ELI dashboard will also comprise of a feature to compare and analyse the performance of cities on the basis various liveability parameters.Ease of Living Index initiative of MoHUA will help cities to assess their liveability conditions through global and national benchmarks.This will also encourage cities to move towards an \u201cOutcome Based Approach\u201d to urban planning and management.Ease of Living assessment standards are related to Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). This will provide boost to India\u2019s effort to systematically track the progress of SDGs in urban areas.Details of Swachh Manch Web PortalCentral govt. will also launch another initiative named Swachh Manch Portal. This is a web-based platform which will bring together each and every stakeholder to contribute towards the Swachh Bharat Mission under a common platform. This platform will allow stakeholders to create, invite and participate in various volunteer opportunities around their neighborhoods. People can access the Swachh Manch Web Portal at http://www.swachhmanch.in/All the citizens and participating organizations can now upload the photo evidence on this Swachh Manch portal. This portal would also contain the records of number of hours which a citizen has volunteered. This will serve as an acknowledgement of citizens / organizations on the cause of \u201cSwachhata\u201d. Swachh Manch Portal is going to be integrated with the already existing Swachhata App. This will act as a Citizens Grievance Redressal platform to hear the complaints and provide solutions to the people.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}