{"search_data": "Central Unnat Bharat Abhiyan 2.0 for Villages by HRD Ministry of Central Govt.Unnat Bharat Abhiyan 2.0More than half of the population of India lives in villages. Every villages possess some specialty along with some challenges. Unnat Bharat Abhiyan 2.0 will make students learn about the problems faced by rural people and to find practical solution for its betterment. Under this scheme, students and professors of Higher Educational Institutions will motivate the rural public for socio economic development of villages through several schemes and initiatives meant for rural development.In the past few years, people from villages migrated towards urban areas for better lifestyle. This Unnat Bharat Abhiyan 2.0 will ensure sustainable development of villages and reverse this migration process. Initially, 750 institutions are participating for the development of rural people and thousand others are willing to join thi national movement. This programme aims to enrich Rural India through establishment of relationship b/w society and higher educational institutions.Unnat Bharat Abhiyan 2018 FrameworkCentral govt. wants to cover around 45000 villages for which the participation of 8252 Higher Education Institutions is required to make it a Jan Andolan (people\u2019s movement). Higher Education Institutions take funds from the government and utilizes people\u2019s money, so their participation will be a payback time. Unnat Bharat Abhiyan 2.0 is a two way process \u2013 Higher Education Institutions will learn from the widom of rural people and people will learn from the knowledge, technology support of these institutions.Unnat Bharat Abhiyan 2.0 ImplementationUnder this unnat bharat yojana, govt. will select institutions in a challenge mode and will be extended to 750 reputed higher education institutions (both public and private). Subject Expert Groups (SEGs) and Regional Coordinating Institutes (RCIs) will guide the participating institutions. IIT Delhi will be the National Coordinating Institute for this unnat bharat abhiyan. All the reputed institutions will get covered in a phased manner.Every institution will have to adopt a cluster of villages / panchayats to gradually expand the outreach over a particular duration. Faculty and Students will study the living conditions, local problems and needs in these adopted villages. Afterwards with the use of technology, these institutions needs to improve the process of implementation of govt. schemes and prepare working action plan for the villages.Unnat Bharat Abhiyan 2.0 NetworkAll the institutions are expected to work in coordination with district administration, elected public representatives of panchayat / villages and other stakeholders. Faculty and students will be re-oriented and connected to ground reality of villages in order to properly implement their learning and research for the welfare of society. For more details, visit the official website \u2013 unnat.iitd.ac.in  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}