{"search_data": "CentralCentrally Sponsored Sericulture Scheme \u2013 Integrated Scheme for Development of Silk industryTable of Contents  Sericulture Scheme \u2013 ComponentsIntegrated Scheme For Development of Silk Industry \u2013 TargetImprovement in Sericulture Scheme from Previous SchemeSericulture Scheme \u2013 ComponentsIntegrated Scheme for Development of Silk Industry has the following 4 components:-Research & Development (R&D), Training, Technology Transfer and other IT Initiatives.Seed Organizations and Farmers Extension Centres.Coordination and Market Development for seed, yarn and silk products.Quality Certification System (QCS) through creation of a chain of Silk Testing facilities, Farm based & post-cocoon Technology Up-gradation and promotion of Export Brand.Central Silk Board (CSB) will implement this scheme for 3 years with fund allocation of Rs. 2161.68 crore.Integrated Scheme For Development of Silk Industry \u2013 TargetCentral govt. wants to increase production of silk from 30,348 MT (2016-17) to 38,500 MT by the end of FY 2019-20. This could be done through the following interventions:-Increase in the production of bivoltine silk (substitute) to around 8500 MTs p.a till 2020.Efficient Use of R&D for improvement in the production of silk per hectare from 100 kg per hectare to 11 kg per hectare.Central govt. will also provide improved reeling machines for mulberry (automatic machinery) and Vanya Silk (Buniyad Machinery) under Make in India programme. This will improve the quality of produced silk to meet the market demands.Around 1 crore jobs will get created through this Sericulture Scheme of central govt. till 2020.Sericulture Scheme Integrated Scheme Development Silk IndustryImprovement in Sericulture Scheme from Previous SchemeThis Integrated Scheme for Development of Silk Industry has the following improvements over the previous schemes:-Making India Self Sufficient in Production of Silk till 2022. Govt. will increase the production of high grade silk in India to 20,650 MTs which currently stands at 11,326 MT. This scheme will minimize imports to zero.Central govt. focus is only on the production of high quality silk. For this, govt. will increase 4A grade silk from current 15% to 25% of mulberry production till 2020.Govt. will implement this scheme through convergence of other schemes like MGNREGS of Rural Development, RKVY & PMKSY of Ministry of Agriculture to maximize benefits for silk producers.Department of Science and Technology, Agriculture and Human Resource Development will start various R&D projects. These projects will provide disease resistant silkworm, host plant improvements, productivity enhancing tools and implements for reeling and wavingUse of Silk worm by products, providing high quality seeds, establishment of new cold storages, providing mobile disinfection units are some of the other initiatives to boost silk production in India.Central govt. will also focus on making mechanization affordable to make India self sufficient in the production of silk. Furthermore, govt. will also do brand promotion of Indian Silk in domestic as well as in Export Market.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}