{"search_data": "Andhra PradeshAP YSR Law Nestham Scheme Apply Online \u2013 Application / Registration / Login FormAP YSR Law Nestham Scheme apply online form available at official website, junior advocates & lawyers to get Rs. 5,000 p.m as stipend after approval of submitted registration / application formAP YSR Law Nestham Scheme Apply Online Form / LoginThe eligible beneficiaries will have to fill the AP YSR Law Nestham Scheme online application form at the official website mentioned below:-AP YSR Law Nestham Scheme Official WebsiteAt the homepage, you will see \u201cregistration / login\u201d section as shown below:-AP YSR Law Nestham Registration LoginCandidates can make YSR Law Nestam login through mobile number, email ID, aadhaar / VID number with OTP, aadhar / VID number with biometrics, aadhar / VID number with IRIS.For making YSR Law Nestham Scheme Registration, select the \u201cRegister\u201d section as shown below:-AP YSR Law Nestham Scheme Registration OnlineHere candidates can enter all details accurately and click at \u201cRegister Now\u201d button to complete the YSR Law Nestham Scheme online registration process.As of now, YSR Law Nestham Scheme Apply Online process is closed as the registration was only available b/w 30/10/2019 and 13/11/2019.AP YSR Law Nestam Scheme FeaturesThe applicants must upload birth certificate along with law degree. The affidavit should be uploaded as registered with Bar council with verification of senior counsel.The applicants must include aadhar number along with the completed AP YSR Law Nestham Scheme application form. Applicants should report specified bank account details.Senior lawyers with 15 years of practice experience and active in practice with certification from the Bar Association. Junior advocates must submit an affidavit every six months.Only 1 member of family is eligible for AP YSR Law Nestham Scheme. Every applicant must have aadhar card. At the time of issue of bio, junior lawyer\u2019s age must be under 35 years.4 wheeler in the name of junior lawyer is disqualified and non practicing lawyers are ineligible. In order to apply for AP YSR Law Nestham Scheme, applicant must have a law graduation degree.The law graduation must be completed and name of applicant must be registered on the rolls under Section 17 Advocacy Act 1961 of State Bar Council.The first 3 years of practice registration on the roll is considered in terms of section 22 of the Advocacy Act 1961.All the junior lawyers will be eligible for a stipend for the remaining 3 years unless the first 3 years of commencement of practice is completed.In case the lawyer has quit his job or got another job. All the candidates must inform the relevant authorities. After registering as a lawyer in the Bar Council, their certificates must be kept in the Bar Council for 2 years.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://www.thehansindia.com/andhra-pradesh/andhra-pradesh-government-released-guidelines-for-ysr-law-nestam-scheme-which-provides-financial-assistance-to-lawyers-576519  at  "}