{"search_data": "Central Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) Scheme Guidelines2. Commencement The PMUY scheme will come into force from 1st April, 2016.3. Objective Availability of clean cooking fuel is a major challenge for rural poor households in the country. Lack of access to clean fuel is adversely affecting the health of particularly women and children in the households using unclean fuel. Government is committed to providing clean fuel to all poor households. Therefore, the Union Budget 2016-17 allocated Rs. 2000 crore to provide free LPG connections to 1.5 crore women belonging to the below power line (BPL) families during the year 2016-17.4. Definitions (a) BPL is a person/ household who suffers from at least one deprivation under the SECC \u2013 2011 (Rural) Database. For identifying urban poor, separate instructions would be issued; (b) Release of LPG connection : LPG connection under this Scheme shall be released in the name of the women belonging to the BPL family. (c) Cash Assistance \u2013 This will cover the initial cost of Rs. 1600/- for providing a connection and this cash assistance would be provided by the Government for each new LPG connection. (d) SECC \u2013 refers to the Socio-Economic Caste census exercise initiated in the year 2011. This exercise was undertaken in a transparent manner by the State Governments and the Ministry of Rural Development, before the SECC database was finalized.5. Selection of Beneficiaries While the selection of beneficiaries would be from the BPL families only, preference would be given to SC/ ST and weaker sections of society., While providing the new connections to BPL households, priority would be given to the States which have lower LPG coverage (compared to the national average) as on 1st Jan, 2016.6. Implementation Modalities of the Scheme would be as follows:-A woman of the BPL household, which does not have access to LPG connection at the start of the new Scheme, may apply for a new LPG connection (in the prescribed format) to the LPG distributor. While submitting the application form, the woman will submit details, like Address, Jandhan/ Bank Account and Aadhar number (if the Aadhar number is not available, steps would be taken in coordination with UIDAI for issue of Aadhar number to the woman of BPL household).The LPG Field officials will match the application against SECC \u2013 2011 database and, after ascertaining their BPL status, enter the details (name, address etc) into a dedicated OMC Web portal through a login / password given by the OMCs.OMCs will undertake electronically the de-duplication exercise and other measures for due diligence for a new LPG connection.The connection shall be issued by the OMC to the eligible beneficiaries (after completion of various stages above). While the connection charges would be borne by the Government, the OMCs would provide an option for the new consumer to opt for EMIs, if he so desires, to cover the cost of a cooking stove and first refill. The EMI amount may be recovered by the OMCs from the subsidy amount due to the consumer on each refillIn case the State Government or a voluntary organization or an individual wishes to contribute the cost of a stove and/or first refill, they would be free to do so in coordination with the OMCs. However, this would be under the overall umbrella of PMUY and no other Scheme name/ tagline would be allowed without express approval of the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas.OMCs will also organize \u2018Melas \u2018at various locations for release of connections to BPL families. This will be done in the presence of public representatives and distinguished personalities of the area.The scheme will cover BPL families under all forms of distributorship and for various sizes of cylinders (like 14.2 kg, 5 kg, etc.) depending on the field situation.The complete document of PMUY scheme Guidelines can be downloaded from the official website of Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas from the below URL http://www.petroleum.nic.in/docs/UJJWALA.pdfSource: www.petroleum.nic.in  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}