{"search_data": "Central ESIC Launches IVR / Help Desk, Audio Visual Clips for Beneficiaries & Insured EmployeesIVR / Help Desk for ESIC Beneficiaries & Insured EmployeesESIC recently started a landmark facility with \u201cLaunching of IVR / Help Desk\u201d for ESIC Toll Free No. \u2013 1800-11-2526. This facility is to enable on the spot redressal of queries of callers. Moreover, IVR will also receive complaints / grievances in case of unresolved queries simultaneously.All the complaints which does not get resolved immediately and requires a longer period, then such complaints will be given unique ticket number. All such complaints will then be forwarded to PG portal of ESIC to solve these complaints as soon as possible. Callers are satisfied and this facility is a happy experience for ESIC beneficiaries. On average, Help Desk receives 1000 calls daily and provides full satisfaction to the callers.Audio Visual Clips for ESIC BeneficiariesESIC has produced a total of 7 Audio-Visuals using info graphics and simple language. This will provide education and spread awareness among the ESIC workforce regarding the ESI benefits. All of these Audio-Visuals are already available on ESIC HQ You Tube Channel. It is receiving a massive response and is very encouraging for people.All of these Audio Visual Clips will be produced for UMANG platform of Govt. of India. It will also host the new ESIC Mobile App \u201cChinta Se Mukti\u201d. Govt. will launch this app very soon. These Audio-Visual clips are also produced in English language along with all other major regional languages to benefit all ESIC Insured Persons.The Clips will help all the Stakeholders, Insured Persons and their family members, employers and employees of ESIC to understand the various benefits being provided under ESI Scheme. These user friendly initiatives of ESIC will empower the entire work force of the country. To directly view 7 Audio Visual Clips on You Tube Channel, we are giving you the direct links:-TopicWatching LinkHealth Treatment Benefits (Chikitsa Hitlabh)Watch on YoutubeMaternity Benefits (Matritva Hitlabh)Watch on YoutubeUnemployment Benefits (Berojgari Bhatta)Watch on YoutubeOld Age Health Benefits (Vridhavastha Chikitsa Dekhbhal)Watch on YoutubeAilment Benefits (Bimari Hit-labh)Watch on YoutubeDisability Benefits (Nishakkta Hitlabh)Watch on YoutubeDependents Benefits (Ashritjan Hitlabh)Watch on Youtube"}