{"search_data": "Central India Post Mobile Banking App Download \u2013 PPF / Post Office Deposits OnlineIndia Post Mobile Banking App available to download at google play store, PO account holders can make PPF & post office deposits online, check features, benefits, details to apply & how to activate application on android smartphonesTable of Contents  India Post Mobile Banking App DownloadHow to Activate India Post Mobile Banking AppOther Details to Apply for India Post Mobile BankingIndia Post Mobile Banking App Features & BenefitsSecurity AdviceDepartment of Posts Help DeskIndia Post Mobile Banking App DownloadA post office customer must have a valid log-in and transaction credentials of internet banking. In case the internet banking is not enabled, mobile banking should be enabled after net banking. People can now download the India Post Mobile Banking App from google play store or directly through the link given below:-https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=src.com.dop&hl=en_INThe India Post Mobile Banking App will appear as follows:-India Post Mobile Banking AppHow to Activate India Post Mobile Banking AppPeople can now download India Post Mobile Banking Application from Google Play Store. It is advised that PO account holders should not download this mobile app from untrusted / unsafe websites. The process to activate India Post Mobile Banking App is given below:-Open the India Post Mobile app and click at the \u201cActivate Mobile Banking\u201d button.Then PO account holders will have to enter the security credentials which have been provided with Department of Post.There are no message charges for OTP (One Time Password). Postal dept. will deliver you Activation OTP on your registered mobile device. Then enter the OTP on the screen which asked you to enter the OTP and proceed further.After successful validation, PO account holders will be asked to enter 4 digit MPIN. Please enter this 4 digit MPIN of your choice and you will be activated for mobile banking application.To make login into Mobile Banking application, please enter your User Id and the new MPINOther Details to Apply for India Post Mobile BankingAny post office account holder has to apply for mobile banking by filling mobile / internet banking request form. In case the PO account holder has opened savings account after migration to CBS with proper KYC documents, there is no need to submit KYC documents.If PO account holder has opened savings account before migration of the post office to CBS, fresh KYC documents along with service request has to be submitted.India Post Mobile Banking App Features & BenefitsHere is the list of benefits and features of India Post Mobile Banking App:-Get mini statement of savings, PPF accounts.Check account balance of savings, RD, PPF and other accounts.You can transfer funds to other other users post office savings account.You can also transfer fund from savings accounts to own linked PPF accounts.Service request for opening RD account and stop cheques can also be raised.Security AdviceFor security reasons, the application cannot be run from a Rooted Device. Department of Post never ask you to provide your MPIN, Transaction Password, User ID and OTP (One Time Password). All the PO bank account holders are advised to be aware of such phishing by fraudulent.Department of Posts Help Desk\u2014 In case the post office account holder is experiencing any difficulty or have any queries, please contact our customer care number \u2013 18004252440.We request you to please provide your valuable feedback and help us to serve you better. Department of Posts \u2013 Banking is now in your hands.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://www.livemint.com/money/personal-finance/ppf-post-office-deposits-can-be-made-online-new-app-launched-11571134557454.html  at  "}