{"search_data": "Madhya PradeshMP Pratibhashali Chhatra Protsahan Yojana \u2013 Laptop Scheme for Meritorious StudentsOn the launch event on 9th June, around 173 students will get this assistance. This scheme will benefit more than 22,000 students.Table of Contents  MP Pratibashali Chhatra Protsahan YojanaAward / Incentive AmountTravel Facility for Meritorious StudentsMP Pratibashali Chhatra Protsahan YojanaMP govt. will provide Citation certificate and an encouragement amount of Rs. 25000 to meritorious students for purchase of Laptop. This scheme is being run by the state govt. for the past few years. For this scheme, To avail the scheme benefits, candidates must fulfill the following eligibility criteria:-For General Candidates \u2013 Candidates must have secured 85% or more marks in Class 12th Main Examination conducted by MPBSE.For Scheduled Caste / Scheduled Tribes / Nomads \u2013 All the SC / ST candidates must have secured st-least 75% marks in the Class 12th Main Examination.Madhya Pradesh Laptop Distribution Scheme 2018-19Madhya Pradesh Board of Secondary Examination (MPBSE) conducts Class 12th examinations every year in the state. Talented students of Govt. and Non Govt. Schools who performed well in these examinations are given awards by the state govt. under Pratibashali Chhatra Protsahan Yojana.Award / Incentive AmountAll the students selected in the State Govt. Merit List (District Wise) will get financial assistance for Laptop in a State Level programme to be held on 9 June 2018 in Bhopal. This year CM Shivraj Singh Chauhan will distribute the cheques of incentives to the meritorious students. For more details \u2013 Click HereTravel Facility for Meritorious StudentsDistrict Education Officer under the guidance of District Collector is responsible to make the arrangements for 173 students to attend the MP Laptop Distribution Programme.To get details of the Laptop Scheme for Meritorious Students, candidates can visit the official website through the link given here \u2013 www.shiksha.samagra.gov.in  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}