{"search_data": "Central Aadhaar Mandatory for 2nd Time Treatment \u2013 Ayushman Bharat Yojana (PMJAY) Aadhaar card is now mandatory to avail treatment for second time under Ayushman Bharat - Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PM-JAY), if beneficiaries does not possess aadhar then they can show their 12 digit enrollment number for unique identity to avail health insurance benefits for the 2nd timeAadhaar Mandatory for 2nd Time Treatment \u2013 Ayushman Bharat (PMJAY)Central govt. has now made it compulsory to possess aadhaar number to avail benefits of heath insurance for 2nd time under AB-NHPM scheme. The official statement stated that \u201cWe are studying the Supreme Court order. Aadhaar number or at-least documents to prove that one has enrolled for 12-digit unique identity number will be mandatory to seek treatment under the scheme for the second time\u201d. However for the first time, one can either show their aadhaar card or voter card or ration card or golden card to avail Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana scheme benefits.The Ayushman Bharat-National Health Protection Mission (AB-NHPM) was renamed as AB-PMJAY and was launched pan-India by the Prime Minister from Jharkhand on 23 September 2018. Till date, around 47,000 people have already availed the benefits of world\u2019s largest health insurance scheme PM Jan Arogya Yojana. Moreover, around 92,000 people have already been given golden cards to avail treatment at NHPM package rates in govt. / private empanelled hospitals.Under AB-PMJAY scheme, there is no restriction on the size of family, age, gender and is going to benefit 10.74 crore poor families. Under this Ayushman Bharat Yojana, govt. aims to provide Rs. 5 lakh per family per annum for secondary & tertiary hospitalization through a network of Empanelled Health Care Providers (EHCP).Aadhaar Mandatory Second Time Treatment Ayushman Bharat SchemeThe PMJAY will provide cashless and paperless access to services for the beneficiary at the point of service. The basis of selection of beneficiaries for Ayushman Bharat scheme is only deprivation rather then caste or religion or communities. This NHPS scheme includes 8.03 crore in rural areas and 2.33 crore in urban areas as per Socio-Economic Caste Census (SECC) 2011 data.NHA official said that around 98% of the total beneficiaries have been identified. People can also check their name in the PM Jan Arogya Yojana list of beneficiaries to avail scheme benefits. Around 14,000 hospitals across the country have been empanelled for this Ayushman Bharat health insurance scheme. Till date, around 32 states and union territories have signed MoUs with the center and will implement this programme. Telangana, Odisha, Delhi and Kerala have still not signed MoUs for the implementation of this scheme.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}