{"search_data": "GoaGoa Laptop Distribution Under Cyberage Student Scheme 2017 -18 Application FormDownload Application Form of Cyberage Student SchemeBelow given are the steps to download the application form of the cyberage laptop distribution schemeVisit the official website at education.goa.gov.in.Now, click the \u201cOrders and Circulars\u201d link present on the homepage or directly click this link.Students can apply according to their respective schools whether government aided or unaided higher Secondary schools.On this page, students can read the instructions as per requirement of their school and download the attached Application Form.Afterward, the student can take a printout of the application form and fill all the details in the application form.After completing the application format along with the required document, submit it to the Directorate of Education, Planning Section, Computer Cell.Below given is the direct link to download the application form with the instructions Circular for Govt. / Govt. Aided Hr. Sec. Schools along with Application Form Circular for Recognized Un-aided Hr. Sec. Schools along with Application FormBelow is the format of Cyberage student scheme 2017-18 application formCyberage Student Scheme 2017-18 Application Form for Aided Hr. Sec. SchoolsSince its launch, the Cyberage scheme has been utilized to make students more tech-savvy and preparing them for the competitive world. The students studying in the subjects including Arts, Commerce, Science and Vocational studies discipline can apply to take the benefit of the scheme.Cyberage Scheme Application Form Fees & Eligibility CriteriaRegistration fees for cyberage laptop distribution scheme and eligibility criteria is given belowThe laptop will be given only to the students studying in class XI in govt. aided and un-aided Higher Secondary Schools.The student should be admitted in the current academic year.The students who already took the benefit of this scheme will not be eligible to apply.The student can apply for the scheme by filling the application form through the name of their respective school authority to the Directorate of Education.The application fees for govt. and govt. aided higher secondary schools is Rs. 1000.The recognized un \u2013 aided higher secondary schools to have submitted Rs. 2000 as registration fees.Moreover, the students must submit the required documents along with the application form to the Directorate of Education, Planning Section, Computer Cell latest by 5 December 2017 (4:30 evening). To get more information about the scheme visit the official website at education.goa.gov.in  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}