{"search_data": "OdishaOdisha Nirman Kusum Yojana for Construction Worker\u2019s ChildrenNirman Kusuma scheme 2019-20 launched by Odisha govt. for children of construction labourers to enable them to pursue technical education, construction workers children will get Rs. 23,600 to pursue ITIs education and Rs. 26,300 for diploma in state run technical institutionsOdisha Nirman Kusuma Scheme for Education in ITIs & DiplomaOdisha govt. has started Nirman Kusuma scheme for providing financial assistance to get education in Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) and diploma in state run technical institutions. Marking the official launch of this scheme, CM has given financial assistance to above 500 children of construction workers registered under Odisha Building & Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.Children Construction Workers Financial Assistance OdishaAfter the introduction of new Nirman Kusuma scheme, the children of construction workers pursuing their ITI education will now get Rs. 23,600. Kids of construction laborers who are pursuing diploma education in state run technical institutions will now get Rs. 26,300.The state govt. has deposited a sum of Rs. 1.09 crore directly into the bank accounts of 1,878 beneficiaries for fiscal year 2019-20.CM @Naveen_Odisha launched Nirman Kusuma Yojana to provide financial aid to construction workers and fully fund their children\u2019s education in government ITI, Polytechnic and Diploma. He also announced to increase financial aid for girls\u2019 education by 20% at each stage.CM Naveen Patnaik of Odisha has announced to raise the ex-gratia amount for registered construction workers. In case of natural death, the compensation amount is raised from Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 2 lakh. In case of unnatural death, the compensation amount has been raised from Rs. 2 lakh to Rs. 4 lakh. The financial assistance for education & health to the girl children of registered workers has been raised by 20%.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}