{"search_data": "Central First Aadhar Authenticated Digital Farmers Database 2020-21 in India for Agricultural SchemesIndia's First Aadhaar Authenticated Digital Farmers Database 2020-21 likely in June, 1st aadhar authentic data of beneficiaries to be created by merging data of Soil Health Cards (SHC), Kisan Credit Cards (KCC), Crop Insurance Scheme, PM-Kisan and other govt. schemes1st Aadhar Authenticated Farmers Database 2020-21The farmers database which is currently available with the central government would be integrated into one. The 1st Aadhaar Authenticated Farmers Database 2020-21 would be created by merging database of beneficiaries of the following schemes:-Soil Health Card SchemeKisan Credit Card SchemeCrop Insurance SchemePM Kisan Samman Nidhi YojanaOther agricultural department schemesThe newly created India First Aadhar Authenticated Digital Farmers Database 2020-21 would be used as a reference point for all government run schemes. This database would help us in reaching out to only the authentic beneficiaries. The 1st Aadhaar Authenticated Digital Farmers Database will be launched with 60 million farmers and their landholdings would also be mapped.The central government has started the exercise of preparing aadhaar authenticated database of farmers. The union govt. has asked various states to verify the landholdings of the farmers. In PM-KISAN Scheme itself, Indian govt. has got database of more than 9 crore (90 million) farmers. Out of this, details of 84% of beneficiary farmers are now aadhar authenticated. This is an ongoing process and govt. will keep updating it.The creation of First Aadhar Authenticated Digital Database of Farmers 2020-21 would help the government to identify needs of farmers. This requirement of farmers would be identified on the basis of their landholdings and crop varieties they produce. Central govt. will discuss ways to reduce use of chemicals and fertilizers to boost productivity of land. The genuine land record and crop which farmers are producing will help government design and run schemes specific to their needs.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/economy/agriculture/indias-1st-aadhaar-authenticated-farmers-database-likely-in-june/articleshow/74291032.cms  at  "}