{"search_data": "GujaratSeva Setu Programme Phase 4 in Gujarat to Resolve Citizens Problems at DoorstepSeva Setu Programme Phase 4 in Gujarat \u2013 List of ServicesGujarat govt. has announced the State wide commencement of 4th Phase of Seva Setu Programme. This decision will ensure good governance on the basis of 4 pillars \u2013 transparency, sensibility, decisiveness and progressiveness. Camps will organized in each taluka to provide on the spot services and fast delivery to people. List of various govt. services is given below:-Income certificateCaste certificateAadhar cardRation cardCreamy-layer certificate for OBCWidow assistanceLand surveyMukhyamantri Amrutam cardMA Vatsalya cardJanani Shishu Suraksha Karyakram (JSSK)Janani Suraksha Yojana (JSY)Samekit Bal Vikas Yojana (SBVY)To provide resolution of several issues at village level and to spare them to make visits to taluka or district headquaters, govt. has started 4th phase of Seva Setu Programme.Gujarat Seva Setu Program Phase 4 \u2013 Projects\u201cSeva\u201d Means \u201cHelp\u201d and \u201cSetu\u201d means \u201cBridge\u201d. Seva Setu will serve as an enabler, facilitator and bridge the gap between the provider (state / central govt. / NGOs) of schemes and the desired beneficiary (poor and needy people).4th Phase Seva Setu Program GujaratTo ensure transfer of benefits to people, govt. will provide last mile connectivity to people with the help of local state machinery. Various programs are bridging gaps in delivery mechanisms:-Aam Sabhas \u2013 These are regular campaigns conducted by Seva Setu field team in villages with the aim to gather information about key issues faced by the villagers, especially in availing the facilities of various welfare & development schemes meant for them. Awareness Campaign and Group Activities are conducted.Citizen Care \u2013 The Citizen Care service is built on telephone facility managed by \u201cSeva Setu\u201d team. Here people can place a call to seek support and guidance to avail government scheme benefits/ services/ information. Telephone based assistance service for prospective beneficiaries under various state & central government schemes will be provided.Mother Care \u2013 This is a Telephone based reminder service for pregnant & lactating women. All the essential information on ante-natal, post-natal check-ups, immunizations, intake of IFA tablets is given to women. This is a simple web-based tool which reminds women of all the essential ante-natal & post-natal activities through weekly phone calls and SMSes.Child Care \u2013 The primary objective of this program is check nutrition (from malnutrition perspective) status of children below 2 years of age. 1st phase is to detect that if the child is malnourished or severely acute malnourished (SAM). This is done on the basis of growth charts, weight & Mid Upper Arm Circumference tape. The 2nd stage involves arranging rehabilitation of SAM children at nearest Nutrition Rehabilitation Centers (NRCs).Meri Kahani Meri Zubani \u2013 This includes true tales of struggle, sorrow, success, failure from villages. This will spread awareness, ignite a sense of responsibility for social cause and to spread hope.Pahel \u2013 Collaborative work with the administrations of various districts in implementing various programs.The state govt. wants that every Indian must assert his / her fundamental rights and be able to avail the benefits of government schemes that guarantee these rights.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}