{"search_data": "Chhattisgarhcgschool.in \u2013 CG Padhai Tunhar Dwar Student Registration Form Online Chhattisgarh govt. invites Padhai Tunhar Dwar student registration form online at cgschool.in, apply at e-learning educational platform, check benefits, features, content \u0939\u093f\u0902\u0926\u0940 \u092e\u0947\u0902 \u092a\u0922\u093c\u0947\u0902Table of Contents  CG Padhai Tunhar Dwar Portal Online Registration Form for StudentsSalient Features of Padhai Tunhar Duar PortalBenefits of Chhattisgarh Padhai Tunhar Dwar PortalPadhai Tuhar Dwar Portal ContentOnline Interactive Classes through Zoom AppCG Padhai Tunhar Dwar Portal Online Registration Form for StudentsBelow is the complete process to fill Padhai Tunhar Dwar Student Registration Form Online:-Visit the official website at www.cgschool.inAt the homepage, click at the \u201c\u0935\u093f\u0926\u094d\u092f\u093e\u0930\u094d\u0925\u0940 \u092a\u0902\u091c\u0940\u092f\u0928\u201d link or directly click this linkThe CG Padhai Tunhar Dwar Student Registration Form will appear as shown below:-CG Padhai Tunhar Dwar Student Registration FormHere candidates can enter their mobile number, name, e-mail, district, address and click at the submit tab.Then candidates can make login using their registered mobile number and password.Through this e-learning platform, teachers and children will be able to connect via video conferencing for online interactive classes.Salient Features of Padhai Tunhar Duar PortalThe important features and highlights of Padhai Tunhar Duar Portal are given below:-Chief minister inaugurated online portal Padhai Tunhar Duar for children sitting at home during lockdown.Now teachers will be able to impart education to students from all over the state and not just from a single school.It is the first major online education platform of its kind in the country and will also be available for Hindi speaking students of CG state or other states.CM interacts with a student of class 8th online and asked her to also connect all her friends with this portal.Online interactive classes will connect teachers and children from their respective homes through video conferencing.Chhattisgarh Padhai Tunhar Dwar PortalThis is an innovative initiative in the interest of students of School Education Department. The portal will be used even after the lockdown ends.Benefits of Chhattisgarh Padhai Tunhar Dwar PortalPadhai Tunhar Dwar is an innovative e-learning platform to teach school children at home. Now lakhs of students of Chhattisgarh state will get online education and can study at home during COVID-19 lockdown. The new programme will prove extremely beneficial in ensuring uninterrupted education of children not only in this lockdown period but also in near future. Visual content for class 1st to 10th students is available at this Padhai Tuhar Dwar portal while this content will be updated upto 12th class in near future.This Padhai Tunhar Duar digital portal is useful for students and now they would be able to utilize their time in a better way by learning new subjects in an interesting manner. This platform also has an online teaching facility where teacher can give lectures and students can ask doubts to clarify their topics. Moreover, any teacher can teach students of not only one school but of the entire state through Padhai Tunhar Dwar Portal.The major benefits are study at home, 100% success, video lessons, TLM, home work, interactive online class room and fun educational games & activities. School Education Department of Chhattisgarh Government has developed Padhai Tunhar Dwar education portal for online studies with the help of NIC.Ensuring #education 4 all from primary to higher sec school students in #Kanker amid #lockdown at their respective homes via C.G govt online portal \"Padhai Tuhar Dwar\". Registration of 7044 #Teachers & 56000 #Students done #CGfeedsthestarving#CoronavirusPandemic #LearnAtHome pic.twitter.com/N7agL67tWo\u2014 CMO Chhattisgarh (@ChhattisgarhCMO) April 22, 2020 Due to the lockdown, the schools have been closed for a long duration. But it is imperative that our children get the opportunity to learn and grow.I am pleased to launch the online portal 'Padhai Tunhar Dwar' (Education to your doorstep) \u2013 https://t.co/3INNoVxSCk pic.twitter.com/vRIfDY8etx\u2014 Bhupesh Baghel (@bhupeshbaghel) April 7, 2020 Padhai Tuhar Dwar Portal ContentThis online educational portal will not only provide the text material but also to make all the classroom-like necessary facilities for education available to the children online. At this portal, students will get text books in PDF format, audio and video lessons etc. as reading material in this portal.On the very first day of the trial of www.cgschool.in, more than 40,000 people visited this portal. In addition to this, hundreds of teachers and students have registered themselves and more than 150 videos and other course materials have also been uploaded.Online Interactive Classes through Zoom AppOnline interactive classes will also be conducted on the Padhai Tunhar Duar portal through the zoom app. In these classes, teachers and children will connect from their homes through video conferencing. In these online classes, teachers will teach lessons and children will also be able to ask doubts-queries to provide experience like real classrooms. At this platform, children will also get their home work. They can solve their work in their copy at home, take photo from mobile and upload it on the portal.Accordingly, the concerned teachers will check it online and send results to students. Students can then learn about their weakness in subjects while staying at home. This portal will continue to be used even after the lockdown ends. This program will also be very useful for remote schools of Chhattisgarh and the schools that lack subject teachers. The biggest feature of this portal is that it has been created by the Department itself without any external help.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: http://www.cgschool.in/  at  "}