{"search_data": "AssamSarothi Start Up Fund Assam Loan Scheme Application Form, Eligibility and Loan DetailsTable of Contents  Sarothi Start Up Fund Loan Application FormSarothi Start Up Fund Loan EligibilityStartup Loan Under Sarothi SchemeSarothi Start Up Fund Loan Application FormThe loan application form of Sarothi Start Up fund Assam scheme can be downloaded from the below link. Sarothi Start Up Scheme Application FormThe application forms may also be obtained from the designate bank branches in the state. Below given the snapshot of application form for sarothi startup scheme.Sarothi Application FormSarothi Start Up Fund Loan EligibilityBelow given are the details of coverage and target group under the scheme:-All the micro, small & medium enterprises (MSME) across the state can apply for the loan.The startup industry having innovative ideas and activities will get the loan easily from the bank under the scheme.Applicant must not be a defaulter declared by any or financial institution.If the applicant have any kind of special skills, he/she will get the priority by the government under the scheme.However, the people of the Hill Districts of the Assam viz, Karbi Anglong & DimaHasao etc. will not get the loan from the Assam Gramin Vikash Bank (AGVB), because this bank doesn\u2019t exist in the hilly districts of the Assam. Although, Govt. of Assam will consult with the other banks for implementation of the scheme in the hilly districts.Startup Loan Under Sarothi SchemeBelow are the highlights of loan and role of state government under the schemeThe eligible applicant will get the loan up to Rs. 10 lakh with 5% interest subvention.The applicant will invest at least 15% of the cost of the project by himself and the rest amount will be financed by the bank.The number of beneficiaries for a fiscal year will be finalized by DICC. In addition, DICC will also finalize district wise AGVB branches to accept the applications of the loan under the scheme.The bank branch can\u2019t start the process of selection of beneficiaries under the scheme without the permission of DICC.In addition, the loan application of applicant will be scrutinized by the official of DICC. After the inspection, the loan application will be placed in the front of District level Committee (DLC) for approval.DLC will accept the proposal and forward to Branch of Assam Gramin Vikash Bank for sanction of loan amount under the scheme.Moreover, the Department of Industries & Commerce, Govt. of Assam will involve in the inspection of the units financed as well as would help the bank in the recovery of loans sanctioned under the scheme.Besides, the beneficiary has to payback of loan in the duration of 5 years as per terms and conditions of the bank.The candidate can download the complete guidelines with the application form of the scheme in PDF format from the below given link. Sarothi Start Up Scheme  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}