{"search_data": "Central PMEGP 2018 Subsidy & Eligibility \u2013 Prime Minister Employment Generation ProgrammeTable of Contents  PMEGP 2018 Eligibility Criteria & Application FormSubsidy Under PMEGP 2018Prime Minister Employment Generation Programme 2018PMEGP 2018 Eligibility Criteria & Application FormAll the candidates can fill the Prime Minister Employment Generation Scheme 2018 Online Application Form through the link \u2013 PMEGP 2018 Application FormThe candidates must fulfill the following eligibility criteria to avail subsidy under PMEGP 2018 Scheme:-Any individual above the age of 18 years can apply for Prime Minister Employment Generation Programme (PMEGP).Applicant must be minimum VIII standard pass for projects above Rs. 10 lakh in manufacturing sector and above Rs. 5 lakh in business and service sector.PMEGP 2018 only sanctions the new projects and this scheme is not applicable for the existing ongoing projects.All Self Help Groups including below poverty line (BPL) SHGs with a pre-condition that these SHGs have not availed benefit of other schemes are eligible.Institutions registered under Societies Registration Act,1860, Production Co-operative Societies and Charitable Trusts are also eligible.Non Eligible \u2013 All the existing units under PMRY, REGP and any other central govt. / state govt. schemes are NOT eligible. Even any unit that has taken the govt. subsidy under any govt. scheme are NOT eligible.Subsidy Under PMEGP 2018Following the maximum limits for cost of projects under PMEGP which is Rs. 25 lakh for manufaturing sector and Rs. 10 lakh for business / service sector, central govt. provides subsidy. The distribution of margin subsidy is as follows:-CategorySubsidy for Urban Area BeneficiarySubsidy for Rural Area BeneficiaryOwn ContributionGeneral Category15% of Total Project Cost25% of Total Project Cost10% of Total project CostSpecial Category including SC / ST/ OBC / Minorities / Women, Physically handicapped, Ex-Servicemen, NER, Hill and Border areas etc.25% of Total Project Cost35% of Total Project Cost5% of Total Project CostHowever for this subsidy, the per capita investment must not exceed Rs. 1.00 lakh in plain areas and Rs. 1.50 lakhs in Hilly areas. Moreover, each beneficiary must pay his own contribution which is around 5% to 10% of total project cost.Prime Minister Employment Generation Programme 2018PMEGP Scheme helps its beneficiaries to set up projects which costs above Rs. 10 lakh in manufacturing sector and Rs. 5 lakh in Business / Service sector.The maximum cost of project which is eligible for financial assistance is Rs. 25 lakh for Manufacturing sector and Rs. 10 lakh for services sector.Central govt. has set a target of 75 projects in each district across the country for more inclusive growth.Moreover, there is also a 2nd loan facility of upto Rs. 1 crore is available for existing and better performing PMEGP Units.Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) implements this scheme at the National level. At the State level, State KVIC Directorates, State Khadi and Village Industries Boards (KVIBs), District Industries Centres (DICs) and banks implements PMEGP Scheme.KVIC provides the govt. subsidy to beneficiaries / entrepreneurs directly into their bank accounts through identified banks. Earlier this year, the central govt. has decided to continue PMEGP for the next 3 years i.e till 2020. For more details, visit the official website \u2013 kviconline.gov.in  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}