{"search_data": "CentralScheme for Capacity Building in Textile Sector \u2013 Skill Development by Central Govt.Table of Contents  Scheme for Capacity Building in Textile Sector \u2013 ObjectivesImplementation of Scheme for Capacity Building in Textile SectorSkill TrainingScheme for Capacity Building in Textile Sector \u2013 ObjectivesThe objectives of the SCBTS Scheme are as follows:-To provide demand driven Skill Development Programme.Subsequently, this scheme will encourage the industry efforts to create jobs in textiles and orther related sectors.Accordingly, this scheme will provide placement oriented skill programme and post placement tracking is mandatory.Moreover, the Central govt. will also promote skilling and skill upgradation in several traditional sectors with the help of respective Sectoral Divisions / Organizations of Ministry of Textiles.Furthermore, SCBTS scheme will also help in providing livelihood to all the citizens belonging to different sections of the society.Implementation of Scheme for Capacity Building in Textile SectorCentral govt. is going to implement this scheme in the following ways:-The central govt. will implement this skill development scheme through industry to fulfill the in-house necessity of manpower.Certain reputed training institutions applicable for textiles sector and Institutions of Ministry of textile/State govt. will also implement this scheme.However, these institutions must have tie-ups with textile industry or units for the placement purposes.Skill TrainingSkill targets will get assigned for various job roles on the basis of skill gap in entry level courses, up-skilling and recognition of prior learning. Central govt. will include web-based monitoring to successfully implement this scheme. Moreover, govt. will consider the skill requirement of traditional sectors like hand-looms, handicrafts, jute, silk etc as special projects.Central govt. focus on the development of entrepreneurs through enhancing skills using various provisions of Mudra Loans. Henceforth, this scheme will provide benefits to all sections of the society. Furthermore, govt. will give special preferences to the SC / ST / Minorities / Person\u2019s with Disabilities and Women candidates and will impart skill training.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}