{"search_data": "Central Aadhar Card Face Authentication to be Launched By UIDAI from 1 July 2018Face Authentication is a unique feature as proposed by UIDAI which will protect the security of Aadhaar Database along with easing down the process of Aadhar Verification. SC has extended the Aadhaar Linking Deadline in the previous judgement.UIDAI Aadhar Card Face AuthenticationSupreme Court recently ordered the UIDAI Authority to give a presentation on Aadhar Security. In reply, UIDAI Authority has given power-point presentation in Supreme Court on the security issues and robustness of Aadhar encryption. Aadhar is a safe and secure document and it may take more than the age of universe for the fastest computer on earth for decryption Aadhar security code. This ensure that the Aadhar Card database is absolutely safe. Moreover, UIDAI does not holds the details of purpose, location or details of transaction.UIDAI will introduce Aadhar Card Face Authentication in fusion mode in addition to one of the following feature \u2013 Fingerprint / Iris / OTP from 1 July 2018. Various Banks, Telecom Companies, Public Distribution System, Income Tax dept. and other dept. are using it for authentication purposes. Aadhaar holds the record of an average of 4 crore authentications per day. Till date, there are approx. 1,696.38 crore Aadhar authentications and 464.85 crore e-KYC transactions. Previously, UIDAi has also introduced the feature of UIDAI Virtual Id to ensure security of Aadhar Database.Aadhar Card is a mandatory document for all the people in India. To avail the benefits of all government schemes, people must obtain their 12 digit identification number to get Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT). However, Supreme Court has removed the deadline of 31st March to link mobile numbers, bank accounts with Aadhar till the final judgement.The presentation on Aadhar Card will continue on 27 March 2018 which the next hearing date. SC Five Judge Bench is hearing the petitions challenging the constitutional validity of Aadhar. For more details on Aadhaar Update, Aadhaar Status, e-Aadhar download, please visit the official website uidai.gov.in  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}