{"000-section": {"000-title": "Skill India \u2013 PMKVY Certified Youths to get DigiLocker & Insurance Cover Facility"}, "001-section": {"000-title": "Skill India \u2013 Insurance Cover for PMKVY Certified Candidates", "001-normal": "Central govt. has made collaboration with New India Assurance (NIA) to provide Personal Accident Insurance cover (Kaushal Bima). Certified candidates under PMKVY can access and download their certificates via Digilocker. The primary focus is to make vocational training aspirational and to incentivize youths to join skill development programmes. To transform India into a digitally empowered society and knowledge economy, certified candidates will be given facility to access Skill Certificate through DigiLocker.", "002-normal": "The New India Assurance Company Ltd. has created a master policy for all PMKVY candidates. These candidates will receive the insurance benefit under PMKVY Scheme with validity of 3 years after date of certification. NSDC will pay the insurance premium for the insurance. NIA will open a special toll-free helpline to address insurers grievances."}, "002-section": {"000-title": "PMKVY Certified Candidates to get DigiLocker Facility", "001-normal": "DigiLocker platform is for the issuance and verification of documents & certificates in a digital manner. This will eliminate the usage of physical documents. For simplification, an online interface is being developed and operational between NIA and Skill Development Management System (SDMS) managed by NSDC.", "002-normal": "PMKVY (2016-2020) aims to provide quality training to build skilled and job-ready workforce. This is being done to meet the needs of the industry. DigiLocker is a key initiative under Digital India Program. To get more details \u2013 PMKVY Youths to Get Insurance Cover & DigiLocker", "003-normal": "Here the master policy number is being generated online and printed on the Skill Certificate. Training Centers can download the Skill cum Insurance Certificate through an online platform. Accordingly, SDMS and candidates can access the Skill Certificate at https://digilocker.gov.in/"}}