{"search_data": "Central National Health Protection Scheme (NHPS) \u2013 Rs. 5 Lakh per Family by Central Govt.Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY)  \u2013 Complete DetailsPradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Abhiyan to start from 25 September 2018.First Health and Wellness Center is opened at Jangla, district Bijapur, Chhattisgarh. See List of Services at health and wellness centres under Ayushman Bharat Yojana 2018. Treatment Package Rates for 1352 medical inspection and surgeries are finalized by the govt. and will soon be uploaded on the NHPM Portal.Central govt. will make NHPS Beneficiaries Selection on the basis of Socio-Economic and Caste Census Data \u2013 SECC 2011. Cabinet Committee of Economic Affairs (CCEA) has approved the launch of this Centrally Sponsored Scheme \u2013 Ayushman Bharat on 21 March 2018. Ayushman Bharat Beneficiaries can now make registration at Common Service Centers (CSCs)Table of Contents  National Health Protection Scheme / Ayushman BharatNeed For Ayushman Bharat SchemeReferencesNational Health Protection Scheme / Ayushman BharatThe important features and highlights of this scheme are as follows:-Under this scheme, govt. will provide Rs. 5 lakh to each family.Subsequently, this mega Universal Health Protection Scheme will benefit 50 crore people across the entire nation.Accordingly, people can avail secondary and tertiary treatment in any hospitals using this financial assistance.In addition to this, central govt. is going to set-up 1.5 lakh health and wellness centers and community healthcare clinics under Bharat Ayushman Programme. For this programme, govt. will allocate Rs. 1200 crore and will also provide treatment for non-communicable diseases.Furthermore, govt. will also focus on including private enterprises to join the programme as a part of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Initiatives.National Health Protection Scheme NHPSNeed For Ayushman Bharat SchemeCurrently, Central govt. is providing Rs. 50,000 as health insurance coverage for economically weaker sections under Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana (RSBY). Henceforth, this amount is not sufficient to cover most of the costly medical procedures. Thus, Central govt. will provide additional Rs. 50,000 benefit to senior citizens for investment in mediclaim.Thus, Central govt. has decided to launch National Health Protection Scheme. Accordingly, this scheme is a path breaking announcement for the health care sector. Ayushman Bharat Programme will enhance the coverage and the amount required per family to avail better medical facilities. Henceforth, this Universal Health Protection Scheme will realize the most important aspect \u2013 \u201cHealth For All\u201d and progress India in the next generation of social security.In addition to this, govt. will also spend Rs. 1200 crore for the Ayushman Bharat Programme to set up wellness centers and healthcare clinics. Furthermore, govt. will also spend Rs. 600 crore to provide nutritional support to Tuberclosis patients.In the Union Budget 2018-19, central govt. has also announced Gobar Dhan Scheme. To see the details \u2013 Click hereReferences\u2014 For all other details, visit the official website www.pmjay.gov.inAlso Read \u2013 Ayushman Family Cards for Health Insurance under PMRSSM  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}