{"000-section": {"000-title": "Hepatitis C Free Treatment Scheme to be Launched by Central Govt."}, "001-section": {"000-title": "Hepatitis C Free Treatment Scheme", "001-normal": "Health Ministry of Central govt. will screen various vulnerable groups. These groups includes drug users and other persons who had undergone surgeries / blood transfusion before FY 2002. This is because the screening procedure was not accurate at that time. Moreover, Central govt. is talking with several Indian companies which manufactures Sofosbuvir (Hepatitis C drug) to negotiate the price for a national level program.", "002-normal": "Punjab and Haryana govt. has already made negotiations with the manufacturing companies. Punjab govt. fix it\u2019s price at Rs. 7000 for the entire course while Haryana govt. got this drug priced at a little lesser amount. Accordingly, the Central govt. wants that the companies should give these drugs at a price less than Rs. 5000 for the full course to roll out this scheme nationally. Govt. will bear this price and will provide free treatment to the patients."}, "002-section": {"000-title": "Hepatitis C Disease", "001-normal": "The total number of patients of Hepatitis C are 1.2 crore which is six times the number of patients of HIV / AIDS patients. This disease is caused through a blood borne virus which affects the liver of a person. The primary reason for its occurrence includes:-", "002-listElement": "- Usage of Injectable Drugs", "003-listElement": "- Injection Practices which are unsafe.", "004-listElement": "- Un-screened Blood Transfusion", "005-listElement": "- However, this disease is not sexually transmitted like Hepatitis-B.", "006-normal": "Till date, there is no vaccination known to cure Hepatitis C. Moreover, a large number of people suffering / infected from this disease develops Liver Cirrhosis or Liver Cancer. Furthermore as per WHO estimates, this disease causes deaths of approx. 4 lakh people across the world.", "007-normal": "As per the WHO guidelines, Sofosbuvir is recommended for the full treatment of Hepatitis C. Punjab state govt. has already started this free treatment scheme back in the June, 2016. The Annual Budget 2018 of Central govt. will include cost to develop state laboratories, purchase of various drugs & other equipment for diagnosis."}}