{"search_data": "Central PM Swamitva Yojana 2020 Online Application / Registration Form \u2013 Bank Loans on Village PropertyPradhan Mantri Swamitva Yojana 2020-21 launched by PM Narendra Modi, apply by filling online application / registration form, get bank loans on village property, demarcation of inhabited land in rural areas would be done by the use of latest surveying methods like drone, integrated property validation solution for rural IndiaTable of Contents  PM Swamitva Yojana Online Application / Registration Form 2020Benefits of PM Swamitva Yojna 2020Guidelines of PM Swamitva Scheme at panchayat.gov.inList of Departments under PM Swamitva YojanaBackground of PM Swamitva YojnaOverview of PM Swamitva Scheme 2020-21PM Swamitva Yojana Online Application / Registration Form 2020Below is the complete process to apply online the PM Swamitva Scheme 2020-21:-Step 1: Firstly visit the official PM Swamitva Yojana online registration portal to be launched soon.Step 2: After making login, applicants can find out the link of new registration.Step 3: Accordingly, applicants can fill the details one by one on the registration form and also upload the required documents.Step 4: Finally, applicants can click at the \u201cSubmit\u201d button. Candidates can then take a printout of the completed application form for future reference.Then the notification regarding completion of PM Swamitva Yojana apply online process would be sent on the registered mobile number. PM Swamitva Yojana will ensure faster development of rural areas along with strengthen e-governance in Panchayati Raj institutions. People can now check the complete details of their property at the portal. Just like online property registration and valuation in various states, the central govt. will also invite PM Swamitva Yojana online registration / application form.Benefits of PM Swamitva Yojna 2020Here are the benefits of Pradhan Mantri Swamitva Yojna 2020:-1) PM Swamitva scheme will end confusion and fights over property.2) This scheme will ensure proper planning for development in villages / panchayats.3) In rural areas, the central govt. will keep track of all panchayati works online.4) Union govt. will perform mapping of each and every house in the villages with the use of drones.After houses are mapped, beneficiaries will get a PM Swamitva Yojana certificate. Accordingly, people would be able to avail bank loans in villages over their properties just like people in urban areas takes bank loans. On the basis of this scheme, the central govt. will provide awards on the Panchayati Raj Diwas from next year. This scheme aims to upgrade the people in rural areas.Guidelines of PM Swamitva Scheme at panchayat.gov.inAll the applicants can check the complete guidelines of PM Swamitva Scheme as released at the panchayat.gov.in website:- List of Departments under PM Swamitva YojanaThere are 4 departments under the Pradhan Mantri Swamitva Yojana 2020-21 which are listed below:-A) Ministry of Panchayati RajB) State Panchayati Raj DepartmentC) State Revenue DepartmentD) Survey of IndiaBackground of PM Swamitva YojnaEvery year on 24 April 2020, central govt. celebrates National Panchayati Raj Day. In order to strengthen e-governance in rural areas, govt. has now launched PM Swamitva Yojana apply form, E-Gram Swaraj online portal and eGramSwaraj mobile app. These initiatives have been launched by PM Narendra Modi himself through video conference due to COVID-19 pandemic. Every year on this occasion, Ministry of Panchayati Raj has been awarding the best performing Panchayats/ States/ UTs across the country under the Incentivization of Panchayats in recognition of their good work for improving delivery of services and public goods.PM Swamitva Yojana BenefitsAwards are given under various categories namely Deen Dayal Upadhyay Panchayat Sashaktikaran Puraskar (DDUPSP), Nanaji Deshmukh Rashtriya Gaurav Gram Sabha Puraskar (NDRGGSP), Child-friendly Gram Panchayat Award (CFGPA), Gram Panchayat Development Plan (GPDP) Award and e-Panchayat Puraskar (given to States/UTs only). This year due to Coronavirus lockdown, awards under only 3 categories viz. Nanaji Deshmukh Rashtriya Gaurav Gram Sabha Puraskar (NDRGGSP), Child-friendly Gram Panchayat Award (CFGPA) and Gram Panchayat Development Plan (GPDP) award have been finalized and will be shared with the concerned States/ UT.Furthermore, award in the other 2 categories will be finalized and communicated to States separately after completion of due process which got delayed due to the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. The NPRD programme will be telecast / webcast over DD\u2013News and the e\u2013event will be witnessed by the Officers of Panchayati Raj Departments and other stake-holders at State / District / Block / Panchayat level across level without compromising the lockdown norms and social distancing measures.Overview of PM Swamitva Scheme 2020-21Name of the SchemePM Swamitva SchemeLaunched on24 April 2020Launched byPM Narendra ModiDepartment nameMinistry of Panchayati RajArticle CategoryCentral GovernmentObjectiveSurvey land and property in rural areas, provide bank loans on mapped village properties"}