{"search_data": "Central housingforall.com \u2013 Housing For All Portal Registration / Login for Home-buyersHousing For All Portal Registration / Login for Home-buyers at housingforall.com, buyers, builders, brokers can fill apply online form & book houses at just Rs. 25,000, e commerce platform to boost real estate sectorTable of Contents  Housing For All Portal Online Registration / Login for HomebuyersHFA E-Commerce Portal for Real Estate SectorBenefits of Housing For All E-Commerce Platform for HomebuyersHousing For All Portal Online Registration / Login for HomebuyersBelow is the complete process to apply online at Housing For All E-Commerce Portal and fill registration / application form:-Firstly visit the official Housing For All (HFA) Portal at housingforall.comOn the homepage, click the \u201cSign Up As\u201d tab in the main menu and then click at the \u201cBuyer\u201d link as shown below:-Housing For All E-Commerce Portal RegistrationUpon clicking this link, the Homebuyers Registration Form will appear as shown below:-Housing For All Buyer Registration FormAfterwards, the homebuyers can make login. Upon logging in, people would be redirected to their profile section, my favourites and booked property.Housing For All Homebuyer LoginAfter making Housing For All Portal login, people can book home at any location, prize as listed on the HFA E-Commerce portal.If a person is willing to buy a property then location, price would be exactly same for home you have booked as promised on the portal.HFA E-Commerce Portal for Real Estate SectorThe central govt. has launched E-Commerce Portal to bring in transparency in the Real Estate Sector and offer only certified projects. The real state sector had gone through turbulent times in the recent past. With improving sales and recovery which was witnessed in FY 2019, it is time that industry joins hands and helps the consumer quickly to make a purchase decision. This E-Commerce Housing Portal will provide a boost to the \u201cHousing For All\u201d and \u201cDigital India\u201d initiative of government.Housing for All Portal is designed for all industry stakeholders with powerful backend platform to manage and display most accurate inventory data in the market.Benefits of Housing For All E-Commerce Platform for HomebuyersThis E-Commerce HFA portal will allow buyers to book their flats directly online. The portal \u201cHousingForAll.Com\u201d will help buyers in accessing best priced inventory by builders for a limited time to take full advantage of best pricing. Buyers will be able to view complete listing info including floor plans, room dimensions, video tours of units and external views looking out from windows / balconies.Buyers will also be able to directly book or reserve a house unit from HFA E-Commerce portal with a refundable payment of only Rs. 25,000. Each applicant is also eligible for \u201cMoney Back Guarantee\u2019 where their initial buyer deposit made on portal is completely secured. The deposited amount will be fully refundable in case buyer elects not to purchase the unit. All the customers will be immediately notified if any units they have shortlisted are already sold.The rising levels of transparency and professionalism in the India\u2019s real estate market has made it attractive for domestic as well as global investors. HousingForAll.Com is yet another effort in garnering support of today\u2019s smart consumer, who wish to buy in quality projects. This way, developers have a platform, where homebuyers will have an option to buy from some of the finest projects of reputed developers.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/economy/policy/housing-ministry-launched-e-commerce-platform-for-real-estate-sector/articleshow/73243832.cms  at  "}