{"search_data": "Central Find Your Lost / Stolen Mobile Phone \u2013 Make Complaint Registration at ceir.gov.in Official WebsiteNow find your lost mobile phone through Indian govt. new Central Equipment Identity Register (CEIR) Scheme web portal, file FIR, inform DoT at helpline number 14422 to blacklist IMEI number of handset \u0939\u093f\u0902\u0926\u0940 \u092e\u0947\u0902 \u092a\u0922\u093c\u0947\u0902Table of Contents  How CEIR Scheme Portal Helps to Find Your Lost / Stolen Mobile PhoneBlock Your Device \u2013 Make Complaint Registration Online @ ceir.gov.inCentral Equipment Identity Register (CEIR)FAQ\u2019s on CEIR Official Website @ ceir.gov.inHow CEIR Scheme Portal Helps to Find Your Lost / Stolen Mobile PhoneHow will this CEIR Scheme portal works in case a mobile phone is stolen or lost:-Firstly the person whose mobile phone is list will have to file an FIR in the nearest Police Station.Then the person will have to inform DoT via a helpline number 14422.After police complaint, DoT will blacklist the IMEI number. This would result in handset being blocked to access any mobile network in future.Block Your Device \u2013 Make Complaint Registration Online @ ceir.gov.inThe user can block the device by any one of the following means:-Through a form submitted on this website. The procedure to do it is as follows: \u2013File a report with the police, and keep a copy of the report.Get a duplicate SIM Card for the lost number from your telecom service provider (eg, Airtel, Jio, Voda/Idea, BSNL, MTNL etc.).Get your documents ready \u2013 a copy of police report and an Identity Proof must be provided. You can also provide the mobile purchase invoice.Fill out the request registration form for blocking the IMEI of lost/stolen phone and attach the required documents. Click here to go to CEIR Complaint Online Registration Form.CEIR Registration Blocking Mobile PhoneAfter submitting the form, you will be given a Request ID. The same can be used for checking the status of your request and for unblocking the IMEI in future.Through TSP\u2019s specified customer outlets.Through State Police.After completing the above mentioned process, the device would be effectively made redundant. With this same IMEI number, cellular operator would also be able to block phone from accessing network. The CEIR will also have access to GSMA global IMEI database which would allow comparison of IMEI numbers to identify counterfeit handsets. GSMA is a global body which represents cellular operators, gear makers, software and internet companies etc. in the telecom ecosystem. This would ensure international cooperation in matters of handset theft.Central Equipment Identity Register (CEIR)A Central Equipment Identity Register is a database of the IMEI numbers of blacklisted handsets. In case a device ESN or IMEI number is listed on CEIR, then it will not work on member service provider networks. This means if a person\u2019s mobile is stolen, then user can make a report to put their IMEI no. entered into CEIR. This will make device unusable in any network.CEIR is popularly known as IMEI DB (database) system in which network operators share their individual blacklists with one another. This is done in order to ensure that service is denied for particular devices which appears on blacklist.FAQ\u2019s on CEIR Official Website @ ceir.gov.inQuestion 1 \u2013 What is CEIR? Answer 1 \u2013 With the aim to curtail the counterfeit mobile phone market and discourage mobile phone theft, protect consumer interest and facilitate law enforcement authorities for lawful interception, DoT intends to implement Central Equipment Identity Registry (CEIR) that connects to the IMEI database of all the mobile Operators. CEIR acts as a central system for all network Operators to share black listed mobile devices so that devices blacklisted in one network will not work on other networks even if the Subscriber Identity Module (SIM) card in the device is changed.Question 2 \u2013 What is the official website of CEIR? Answer 2 \u2013 ceir.gov.inQuestion 3 \u2013 How to Unblock Mobile Phone at CEIR Portal? Answer 3 \u2013 To unblock a lost/stolen device, the user has to report to local Police that it is found. After that user can unblock the device by any one of the following means:- 1) Through a form submitted on this website. The procedure to do it is as follows: \u2013 a) Fill out the request registration form for unblocking the IMEI of found phone. Click here to go to the form. b) After submitting the form, the IMEI will be unblocked. 2) Through TSP\u2019s specified customer outlets.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://twitter.com/rsprasad  at  "}