{"search_data": "Central PM Krishi Udan Yojana | One District One Product Scheme 2020FM Nirmala Sitharaman announces Krishi Udan Yojana by Aviation ministry & PM Modi One District One Product Scheme in Union Budget 2020-21 to ensure doubling of farmers income by 2022Table of Contents  Krishi Udan Yojana by Aviation MinistryHow Krishi Udaan Scheme of Central Govt. Will Work?PM Modi One District One Product Scheme 2020How One District one Product Scheme of Central Govt. Will Work?Krishi Udan Yojana by Aviation MinistryJust like the Udan scheme was launched in 2016 for regional connectivity between states for common man. The central govt. is now going to start Krishi Udan Yojana for farmers. Under UDAN Scheme, financial incentives in terms of concessions from the centre, state governments and airport operators are extended to selected airlines. This is done to encourage operations from unserved and undeserved airports and keep airfares affordable. Similar to this, Krishi Udan Scheme will attract incentives to airlines from govt. and airport operators for transport of agricultural products to different parts of the country.How Krishi Udaan Scheme of Central Govt. Will Work?At-least half of the seats in Udan flights are offered at subsidized fares and participating carriers are provided a certain amount of viability gap funding (VGF). The VGF amount is shared b/w the central government and the concerned state governments. Krishi Udan Yojana is a path breaking step as subsidized fares would be provide for farmers and delivery of their agricultural products. This subsidy will remain applicable on national and international routes.PM Modi One District One Product Scheme 2020Indian railways would set up Kisan Rail through Public Private Partnership (PPP) model. This will ensure that perishable goods are transported quickly to build a seamless national cold supply chain. FM also said that govt. is giving high focus at district level for horticulture to gain momentum. To ensure better marketing and export, all the supporting states will focus on one product for one district.How One District one Product Scheme of Central Govt. Will Work?This One District One Product Scheme will ensure that high focus is given at district level for horticulture to gain momentum. Previously in Udan 4.0, the VGF has been raised for aircraft having more than 20 seats and that would operate in priority areas \u2013 Ladakh, Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, northeastern states, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Lakshadweep.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://www.ndtv.com/india-news/budget-2020-finance-minister-nirmala-sitharaman-announces-krishi-udan-scheme-to-give-farmers-wings-2173065  at  "}