{"search_data": "Andhra PradeshFarmers Free Energy Efficient Pump Sets Scheme in Andhra Pradesh for AgricultureTable of Contents  Free Energy Efficient Pump Sets Scheme (Phase I)Energy Efficient Pump Sets \u2013 FeaturesAP Solar Pump Sets Subsidy SchemeFree Energy Efficient Pump Sets Scheme (Phase I)In the initial phase, AP Discoms will replace 4 lakh traditional agricultural pump sets with EE Pump Set during the FY 2018-19. EE Pumps will ease the agricultural process for farmers as they can operate these pump sets even from their home.Moreover, these pump sets will further protect farmers from mis-happenings like snake bite etc. which occurs due to late night working. These pump sets will contain the specifications which are described below.Energy Efficient Pump Sets \u2013 FeaturesAn EE Pump Set under Free Energy Efficient Pump Sets Scheme will cost around Rs. 40,000 to the state govt. However, farmers will not have to pay a single penny from their pockets. The salient features of these pump sets are given below:-BEE Five-Star rated.People can operate these pump sets with mobile phones.This EE pump sets will internally contain a control panel.Internal SIM Card facility.30% Energy SavingAutomatic SMS sending capability in case of any Technical Issue.AP Solar Pump Sets Subsidy SchemeAP govt. is also planning to introduce a new Solar Pump Sets Subsidy Scheme for farmers. Under this scheme, govt. will provide subsidy on the solar energy pump set worth Rs. 3.12 lakhs. Accordingly, govt. will provide a subsidy of Rs. 2.57 lakh and the remaining amount of Rs 55,000 have to be borne by the farmers themselves.In addition to this, the state govt. spends approx. Rs. 1.65 lakh in power sector for the welfare of every farmer. Furthermore, govt. has already provided 9,62,712 agriculture pump sets which have High Voltage Distribution Systems (HVDS) with an investment of around Rs. 1 lakh on every pump set. These pumps reduces the motor burning incidents and interruption and thus allow regular voltage supply.AP govt. is making every possible effort to provide facility of drinking water for every house and irrigation facility for every agricultural land. Accordingly, govt. is providing reliable power supply to the farmers which has resulted in achieving growth rate of 11.61% during FY 2016-17.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}