{"search_data": "Central MSME Support & Outreach Programme \u2013 Samveg Scheme by PM Modi (12 Initiatives) Know the 12 major announcements by Pradhan Mantri Narendra Modi to boost MSME sector in India made during the launch of MSME Support and Outreach programme, this Samveg scheme will provide access to credit, access to market, technology upgradation, ease of doing business & sense of security for employees based on these 12 initiativesTable of Contents  MSME Support and Outreach Programme by PM Modi \u2013 12 InitiativesAccess to Credit (1, 2, 3 Announcements)Access to Markets (4, 5, 6 Announcements)Technology Upgradation (7th Announcement)Ease of Doing Business (8, 9, 10, 11, 12 Announcements)Social Security to Employees in MSME SectorMSME Support and Outreach Programme by PM Modi \u2013 12 InitiativesPrime Minister Narendra Modi has made made 12 announcements under the Support and Outreach Programme for MSME sector. These 12 initiatives will fulfill the requirements of the 5 categories mentioned above and are described as follows:-Access to Credit (1, 2, 3 Announcements)The access to credit category is the first of the 5 categories for which PM has made 3 announcements as below:-First Initiative \u2013 As the 1st announcement, PM launches psbloansin59minutes.com which is a 59 minute portal to enable easy credits to MSMEs. At this portal, govt. will grant in-principle approval for business loans upto Rs. 1 crore in just 59 minutes. A link to this portal is also available at the GST portal to ensure that nobody is compelled to visit bank branches repeatedly.Second Initiative \u2013 PM Modi has made 2nd announcement as 2% interest subvention for all GST registered MSMEs on fresh or incremental loans. Interest rebate has been hiked from 3% to 5% for exporters who receive loans in the pre-shipment and post-shipment period.Third Initiative \u2013 As 3rd announcement, all companies with an annual turnover of more than Rs. 500 crore must now mandatorily be brought on the Trade Receivables e-Discounting System (TReDS). On joining this portal, entrepreneurs would be able to access credits from banks based on their upcoming receivables. This initiative is going to resolve the problem of cash cycle.Access to Markets (4, 5, 6 Announcements)The 2nd Category is access to markets for which 3 announcements were made by PM Modi which are given below:-Fourth Initiative \u2013 To provide access to markets for entrepreneurs, the central govt. has already taken a number of initiatives. The 4th announcement is that the public sector companies have now been asked to compulsorily procure 25% instead of 20% of their total purchases from MSMEs.Fifth Initiative \u2013 The 5th announcement is related to women entrepreneurs in which out of the 25% procurement mandated from MSMEs, 3% must now be reserved for women entrepreneurs. Around 1.5 lakh suppliers are registered with GeM out of which 40,000 are MSMEs. Till date, transactions worth more than Rs. 14,000 crore have been made through GeM.Sixth Initiative \u2013 The 6th announcement is that from now onward, all the public sector undertakings of the central government must compulsorily be a part of GeM. It is also mandatory for the PSUs to get all their vendors registered on GeM.Technology Upgradation (7th Announcement)PM Modi said that tool rooms are a vital part of product design which is related to upgradation of technology. In the 7th announcement, PM mentioned that 20 hubs will be formed across the country and 100 spokes will be established to be used as tool rooms.Ease of Doing Business (8, 9, 10, 11, 12 Announcements)The 4th Category is Ease of Doing Business for which 5 announcements were made by PM Modi which are given below:-Eight Initiative \u2013 The 8th announcement is related to Pharma companies which stated that clusters will be formed of pharma MSMEs. PM said that 70% of the total cost for establishment of these clusters would be borne by the central government.Ninth Initiative \u2013 In the 9th announcement, PM mentioned that all the government procedures are going to be simplified. Moreover, the return under 8 labour laws and 10 union regulations needs to be filed only one time in a single year.Tenth Initiative \u2013 In the 10th announcement, PM said that the establishments to be visited by an Inspector will be decided through a computerized random allotment.Eleventh Initiative \u2013 To establish a unit, an entrepreneur needs 2 clearance namely envirinmental clearance and consent to establish. So, the 11th announcement is that under the air pollution and water pollution laws, now both these clearances have been merged as a single consent. Moreover, the return will be accepted through self-certification.Twelfth Initiative \u2013 In the 12th announcement, PM mentioned that an ordinance has been brought in which, for minor violations under the Companies Act, the entrepreneur will no longer have to approach the Courts. For such violations, entrepreneurs can correct them through simple procedures.Loans upto Rs. 1 crore in 59 minutes. pic.twitter.com/6vjYKEPhs8\u2014 PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 3, 2018Social Security to Employees in MSME SectorPM Modi also intends to provide social security for the employees in MSME sector. For this purpose, the central govt. would launch a mission to ensure that these employees possess jan dhan accounts, provident fund and insurance facilities.PM said that these 12 decisions would go a long way to help MSME sector in India and also the implementation of this outreach programme would be intensively monitored over the next 100 days.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}