{"search_data": "DelhiDelhi Loan Scheme for Safai Karamcharis to Buy Sewer Cleaning MachinesDelhi Loan Scheme for Safai Karamcharis / Manual Scavengers \u2013 Sewer Cleaning MachinesAll the workers (not contractors) who are engaged in manual scavenging activities or who cleans sewers can now take loans from the state govt. to buy Sewer Cleaning Machines. The important features and highlights of this Delhi Govt. Loan Scheme 2018 for manual scavengers are as follows:-Need for Manual Scavengers Loan Scheme \u2013 This decision comes after the recent death incidents where at-least 12 workers have been killed during cleaning sewers or septic tanks in Delhi since August 2016. So, this initiative will put an end to manual scavenging and thus will reduce deaths caused while cleaning sewers. Now all the safai karmis will no longer have to dig deep into the manholes risking their lives.Number of Manual Scavenging Machines \u2013 Delhi Jal Board will procure 220 specialised machines which a workers can take on contract for 7 years. The state govt. will act as facilitator. This Delhi Govt. Loan Scheme will rehabilitate safai karamcharis or manual scavengers.Cost of Sewer Cleaning Machines \u2013 One question still arises that how workers will be able to procure their own machines that can cost upto Rs. 38 lakh. SBI would provide 75% of the total machine cost at 11% per annum. SC / ST corporations will provide 15% of the total cost at 10% per annum. Remaining cost is to be borne by the individual. Govt. will provide them loans for procurement of specifically designed sewer cleaning machines and will turn them into entrepreneurs.Earnings for Safai Karamcharis \u2013 To successfully implement this scheme, govt. must keep a check on the people who purchases these machines. All the workers who takes these machines on contract can earn b/w Rs. 40,000 to Rs. 50,000 per month for 5 months after deduction of the entire loan amount.Other Measures \u2013 Govt. is also focusing on releasing new scavenging guidelines which needs to be followed by malls, hospitals and hotels."}