{"000-section": {"000-title": "Telangana Farmers Free Passbook under Land Records Registration Policy at Dharani", "001-normal": "Telangana govt. will upload all the necessary details of land on the website to eradicate corruption. For this reason, govt. is going to introduce new land reforms."}, "001-section": {"000-title": "Free Passbooks to Telangana Farmers", "001-normal": "The important features and highlights of this programme are as follows:-", "002-listElement": "- Telangana govt. is going to implement this programme as a model. This new passbook will contain all details of land records which are present with the govt. agencies.", "003-listElement": "- Subsequently, govt. will put all the information on an official website \u2013 Dharani. Thus, the state govt. will implement this process just like a Core Banking System.", "004-listElement": "- Govt. will update all the land transactions on this website on a daily basis. People can also use this information for sale and purchase of land. For this reason, govt. has created an IT wing to update this info.", "005-listElement": "- Revenue department will take over the process of land administration and records maintenance.", "006-listElement": "- This will bring a new transparent and corruption free \u201cLand and Reforms Based Registration Policy\u201d.", "007-listElement": "- On 11 March 2018, govt. will implement an Input Subsidy Scheme and also distribute new passbooks to Telangana Farmers.", "008-listElement": "- KCR also announced that all the farmers can avail this registration facility at each Mandal Office.", "009-listElement": "- Furthermore for eliminating corruption, govt. will introduce new reforms \u2013 put an end to fake documents for Registration, Sale and Purchase of lands. In addition to this, process of Land Records Maintenance will also get introduced.", "010-normal": "This will ease down the process for farmers and other people. Now, people don\u2019t have to make unnecessary visits to the govt. offices. They shall come to the registration office only once which will further eradicate corruption. Accordingly, govt. will strengthen land records maintenance and other reforms through the official website Dharani which will record each transaction."}}