{"search_data": "Central Free Novel Coronavirus (COVID 19) Treatment / Testing in Ayushman Bharat (PMJAY) SchemeTo tackle COVID 19 pandemic, govt. starts free Novel Coronavirus Symptoms Treatment and Testing in Ayushman Bharat (PM Jan Arogya Yojana) Scheme, take protective measures and avail free checkup facilityTable of Contents  Free Coronavirus (COVID-19) Treatment / Testing in Ayushman Bharat YojanaProtective Measures Against Novel Coronavirus (COVID 19)Coronavirus cases in IndiaFree Coronavirus (COVID-19) Treatment / Testing in Ayushman Bharat YojanaThe symptoms for which free treatment is available under Ayushman Bharat-PMJAY includes pneumonia, fever and respiratory failure. Testing and treatment of COVID-19 is already available for free in public facilities. Now, more than 50 crore citizens, eligible under the health assurance scheme will be able to avail free testing through private labs and treatment for COVID-19 in empanelled hospitals. An official of the central govt. tweeted \u201cTreatment of symptoms of #COVID19 #Corona like Pneumonia, Fever, Respiratory Failure etc. is available, thru diff. Packages, under #AyushmanBharat #PMJAY free of cost for eligible people in empanelled hospitals & other designated hospitals.\u201dCentral govt\u2019s flagship Ayushman Bharat PM Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY) provides insurance coverage of upto Rs. 5 lakh per annum per family per year. This health insurance facility is for secondary and tertiary care hospitalization to more than 10.74 crore poor and vulnerable families across the country. All AB-PMJAY Beneficiaries are entitled to get cashless and paperless access to serviceshand rub at empanelled and designated hospitals.Till date, there are 1,578 health benefit packages with defined rates under PM-JAY and over 20,761 public and private hospitals across the country have been empanelled. Check Ayushman Bharat Yojana Package Rates. Currently, the central govt. has issued 12.41 crore e-cards to AB-PMJAY beneficiaries. Moreover according to NHA, 91.70 lakh hospital admissions have taken place under the scheme.More than 50 crore poor & vulnerable citizens shall henceforth be eligible for free #COVID_19 testing & treatment under #AyushmanBharat #PMJAYTesting at private labs & treatment in designated hospitals now made free for Ayushman beneficiaries across India@AyushmanNHA @ibhushan pic.twitter.com/ikXQhhYJJy\u2014 Dr Harsh Vardhan (@drharshvardhan) April 4, 2020 The COVID-19 tests will be carried out as per protocols of the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) and by private labs approved or registered by it. Health experts said that social distancing and extensive testing are the only two most potent weapons in the fight against the highly contagious Coronavirus. This COVID-19 virus has infected over a million people across the world. While the centre is strictly enforcing the nationwide lockdown to stem the spread of the virus, the country has one of the lowest testing rates among the affected nations.To bolster coronavirus testing numbers, the centre has recruited several private labs. However, there were concerns that poor people will not be able to afford them as the cost is steep \u2013 Rs 4,500 per test. Active private sector involvement will be critical in case there is a surge in the number of COVID-19 patient that need care. States are in the process of enlisting private sector hospitals that can be converted to COVID-19 ONLY hospitals,\u201d the NHA added.Protective Measures Against Novel Coronavirus (COVID 19)People can now take the following protective measures against coronavirus:-Wash your hands with soap and water frequently.Use Alcohol based hand rub.Avoid touching your eyes, nose and mouth.Maintain Social Distancing.Avoid organizing and participating in large groups.Cover your mouth while sneezing and coughing.Don\u2019t spit in public.Avoid close contact if you are experiencing cough or fever.Coronavirus cases in IndiaThe number of positive coronavirus cases in India has been raised to 2,301 (56 deaths) by 4 April 2020. NHA has issued advisory to consult designated hospitals in case of any COVID-19 symptoms. All the hospitals are fully equipped with treatment, testing and isolation facilities. NHA has also issued a toll-free support number:- 1075 or 1800-112-545. Since this disease is infecting health of citizens of more than 100 countries, so the World Health Organization (WHO) has declared Novel Coronavirus (COVID 19) as pandemic.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://www.financialexpress.com/lifestyle/health/coronavirus-treatment-under-ayushman-bharat-pmjay-free-treatment-of-coronavirus-symptoms-available/1900659/  at  "}