{"search_data": "Central PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana 2020 Registration Offline at CSCs Modi govt. starts PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana online registration 2020 at pmkisan.gov.in, farmers can even fill PM-KISAN e application form at CSCs to apply online, check name in beneficiary list & track application statusTable of Contents  PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana Registration 2020Need for PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana E-RegistrationPM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana Offline Application Form at CSCsPM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana Registration 2020The Modi led NDA govt. has introduced the option of PM Kisan Scheme online registration at pmkisan.gov.in. This e-registration process will stem corruption and result in fast implementation of this PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana. PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojna Apply OnlineThe links to apply online for PM Kisan Scheme and editing aadhaar details are now functional. Now farmers even can apply online for PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana from any common service centre (CSC). The PM Kisan Yojana form PDF then can be verified online by the respective patwari or any authorised official of the gram panchayat.Need for PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana E-RegistrationThere were a lot of rejections of PM Kisan Yojana application forms due to mismatch of information and non eligible forms. PM Kisan Scheme e-registration process would keep a check on this. The ambit of PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana has been widened after PM Kisan Scheme extension irrespective of landholding.It is now almost necessary to open the option of PM Kisan Scheme online application for fast disposal of assistance amount to farmers. PM Kisan Yojana online registration would work parallel to the existing system.PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana Offline Application Form at CSCsTill date, farmers have to deposit their forms at gram panchayats where the patwaris or other authorised people verify the information. There are many incidents where farmers had to follow up the officials and extend favour to get verification done. By starting PM Kisan Yojana online application form filling process at CSCs, these incidents will reduce in numbers.The central govt. has so far enrolled around 36.6 million (3.66 crore) beneficiaries. Out of these beneficiaries, around 30.3 million (3.03 cr) have been paid the first installment of 2,000. Moreover, around 19.9 million (1.99 cr) have got the second installment as well.After opening PM Kisan Scheme for all farmers, the number of beneficiaries across the country is estimated to be around 145 million (14.5 crore). Taking every farmer under the PM Kisan Yojana net would be a time-consuming exercise. So, Modi govt. would introduce PM Kisan Yojana form filling process at CSCs which can reduce the time.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/economy/agriculture/govt-planning-e-registration-for-pm-kisan-to-speed-up-implementation/articleshow/69698160.cms  at  "}