{"search_data": "OdishaModified Guidelines for Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana (BSKY) \u2013 Income Limit RaisedOdisha govt. has modified guidelines of Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana (BSKY) as annual income limit for the treatment of cancer, heart and kidney diseases is now raised from Rs. 1 lakh p.a to Rs. 3 lakh p.a, also all the premier hospitals including Tata Memorial Hospital, Mumbai, CMC Vellore, Narayana Hrudalaya have also been covered under BSKY schemeOdisha New Guidelines for Biju Swasthya Kalyan YojanaThe modified guidelines for BSKY scheme are hereby stated as follows:-Now people can avail treatment upto Rs. 3 lakh in case of treatment of cancer, heart and kidney diseases which was previously Rs. 1 lakh.Odias who are living outside Odisha can now also avail the benefits of BSKY scheme anywhere across the country.Moreover, the Odisha citizens who wish to seek the benefits the scheme outside the State will also be able to do so. For this, all the state & central govt. hospitals needs to be empanelled under BSKY scheme.Around 4,036 medical packages are included under the Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana (BSKY) whereas the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY) covers only 1,343 packages.All the premier hospitals such as Tata Memorial Hospital, Mumbai, CMC Vellore, Narayana Hrudalaya have been included in the BSKY scheme.Any patient who will be referred to any hospital outside the state will also get a conveyance charge at the rate of Rs. 2,000. This amount will be transferred directly to the bank account of the beneficiaries.Besides all the govt. hospitals within the state, BSKY will initially cover around 208 private hospitals. Package rates have also been revised upwards to attract more hospitals to be covered under the scheme.Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana will provide annual health coverage of Rs. 5 lakh per family and Rs. 7 lakh for women members of the family. Even all the beneficiary families need not pay any premium amount as the state govt. will pay the full premium on the behalf of beneficiary family.After reviewing #BSKY, CM @Naveen_Odisha expanded scope of flagship healthcare scheme. It will now be available to Odias living outside the state and at all premier hospitals across India; income limit for cancer, heart & kidney hiked from \u20b91L to \u20b93L.#BSKYRollsAcrossIndia (1/2) pic.twitter.com/7Qys9AzLWv\u2014 CMO Odisha (@CMO_Odisha) October 27, 2018Moreover, treatment of all the pre-existing diseases would also be covered under the Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana. Swasthya Mitras have been deployed at each empanelled hospitals to assist people in getting treatment.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}