{"search_data": "CentralOnline Aadhar Mobile Linking May Soon be Available for Numbers Registered with UIDAIUIDAI may soon issue some directions to make the Aadhar \u2013 Mobile linking process easy and convenient. The considerations being made by the UIDAI will help in reducing the long queues outside the outlets of mobile service providers and issues such as non-availability of machines. Table of Contents  Aadhar Mobile Linking Online \u2013 MethodsHow to Link Aadhar with Mobile OnlineAadhar Mobile Linking Last DateAadhar Mobile Linking Online \u2013 MethodsMethod 1: Under the proxy authorization, a senior citizen may be able to authorize another person for completing the process of linking. However, it is still not clear whether proxy authorization will be available only for the senior citizens or for other mobile users as well.Method 2: Linking Aadhar card with the mobile number will get even more simpler if the mobile number is same as in the Aadhar Database with the UIDAI, given at the time of Aadhar enrollment or updated later. Since, UIDAI can not share the data directly with the telecom companies but linkage can be verified using the OTP method.Method 3: The telecom companies may also be asked to do home visits along with the bio-metric machines for linking Aadhar numbers with Mobiles.Method 4: The DoT had already allowed re-verification through SMS, IVR or via telcos\u2019 mobile-based apps.Method 4: Customers send their Aadhaar and mobile details to a designated number, which will validate the information with the UIDAI.Mobile companies has been sending repeated messages to consumers for linking their Aadhar with the mobile numbers or face deactivation of services. How to Link Aadhar with Mobile OnlineIf the plan is implemented, the people who uses the same mobile number which is with the UIDAI (Given at the time of Aadhar enrollment or updated later) will be able to link their Aadhar with mobile numbers online through OTP method.The government may launch a new facility on the UIDAI website or any other portal for online linking of Aadhar and Mobile numbers. The complete process of online linking would be available once the facility is launched. Aadhar Mobile Linking Last DateMost the mobile consumers don\u2019t know, but the last date of Aadhar mobile linking is February 2018. Even the last date is still about 5 months far, people are being bombarded with messages to link their Aadhar number with mobile or face disconnection of services.Last Date of Aadhar Mobile Linking: February 2018Aadhar \u2013 mobile linking is even difficult for people living in such rural and hilly areas from where the outlets of mobile service providers are too far. So, if these consideration are put in effect, it will be easy for all to complete the process.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}