{"000-section": {"000-title": "Khelo India State Centre of Excellence (KISCE) by Sports Ministry to Better India\u2019s Olympic Performance"}, "001-section": {"000-title": "Khelo India State Centre of Excellence (KISCE) by Sports Ministry to better India's Olympic performance, 8 KISCE centers in 1st phase in Karnataka, Odisha, Kerala, Telangana, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Mizoram & Nagaland, check details here"}, "002-section": {"000-title": "Khelo India State Centre of Excellence (KISCE) by Sports Ministry", "001-normal": "To upgrade the existing centre to KISCE, central govt. will extend \u201cViability Gap Funding\u201d in sports science and technology support for sports disciplines practiced at the centre. This would also bridge the gaps in requirement of sports equipment, expert coaches and high performance managers. The support extended for development of Khelo India State Centre of Excellence by Sports Ministry will be to olympic Sports. Support can be extended in sports science and allied fields in other sporting disciplines being run by the centre. In the 1st batch, the following sporting facilities will be upgraded to KISCE:-", "002-listElement": "- Sangey Lhaden Sports Academy, Itanagar, Arunachal Pradesh", "003-listElement": "- Jaiprakash Narayan National Youth Centre, Bangalore, Karnataka", "004-listElement": "- GV Raja Sr. Secondary Sports School, Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala", "005-listElement": "- Khuman Lampak Sports Complex, Imphal, Manipur", "006-listElement": "- Rajiv Gandhi Stadium, Aizawl, Mizoram", "007-listElement": "- State Sports Academy, IG Stadium, Kohima, Nagaland", "008-listElement": "- Kalinga Stadium, Bhubaneshwar, Odisha", "009-listElement": "- Regional Sports School, Hakimpet, Telangana", "010-normal": "The state and UT will run the KISCE and build capacity to turn it into the world-class sporting facility. Moreover, the state and UT will be responsible for all aspects of management of KISCE centre including, boarding, lodging and maintenance. The funds for critical gaps such as expert coaches, support staff, equipment, infrastructure will be extended through the Khelo India Scheme."}, "003-section": {"000-title": "Need to Setup KISCE to Better India\u2019s Olympic Performance", "001-normal": "The Khelo India State Centre of Excellence are going to be established to strengthen India\u2019s pursuit of excellence in Olympics. The govt. is focusing on scaling up the best sporting facilities available in each state in India into academies of world-class standard. Here athletes from across the country will want to get training in their specific disciplines. The sporting facilities at KISCE centres have been identified after in-depth analysis by a government committee.", "002-normal": "This KISCE initiative will tap talent from across the country and will provide them with training to convert them into elite athletes. These athletes can then win medals for the country in all major international tournaments and particularly in the Olympics. The 8 new KISCE centres will get grant on the basis of the actual amount finalized as per the requirement indicated after a comprehensive gap analysis study.", "003-normal": "The Sports Authority of India (SAI) will extend expertise, resources and a monitoring system to ensure that the level of performance of the athletes improves to international standards.", "004-normal": "Source / Reference Link: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/more-sports/others/sports-ministry-to-establish-kisce-to-enhance-indias-olympic-performance/articleshow/76406476.cms"}}