{"search_data": "CentralCentral Govt. Approves National AYUSH Mission (NAM) To Continue Till March 2020Table of Contents  Objectives of National AYUSH MissionImplementation of National AYUSH Mission (NAM)ReferencesObjectives of National AYUSH MissionThe primary objectives of NAM are as follows:-This mission is launched to provide cost effective AYUSH Services through raising the access to AYUSH hospitals and dipensaries.In addition to this, NAM also ensure co-location of various AYUSH services at Primary Health Center (PHCs), Community Health Centers (CHCs) and District Hospitals (DHs).Moreover, NAM focuses to strengthen educational institutions, pharmacies, drug testing laboratories of AYUSH at the state level.AYUSH mission provide assistance for cultivation of medicinal plants through Good Agricultural Practices (GAPs).Accordingly, NAM will also provide support to set up clusters through convergence of cultivation, warehousing, marketing and value addition.This mission focuses on the availability of sustained supply of AYUSH raw materials. Furthermore, AYUSH mission will promote the adoption of High Quality Standards of AYUSH drugs.The primary components of NAM Mission are AYUSH Services, Educational Institutions, Medicinal Plants and Quality control of AYU &H drugs.Implementation of National AYUSH Mission (NAM)Central govt. will perform following activities for the successful implementation of components of NAM:-AYUSH Services:Co-location of various AYUSH facilities at Primary, Community and District Hospitals.Subsequently, Central Govt. will upgrade the existing govt. hospitals and Govt. / Panchayat / Govt. aided dispensaries.Accordingly, NAM will provide 50 beds facilities in AYUSH hospitals and various other Program Management Units.In addition to this, govt. will ensure sufficient supply of drugs to AYUSH hospitals and dispensaries.Central govt. will encourage Social Health Programme and other efforts to increase public health outreach.Educational Institutions:Central govt. will focus on Infrastructure development of Under-Graduate (UG) and Post-Graduate (PG) institutions.Moreover, Central govt. will also open new AYUSH educational institutions in those states which does not possess such institutions.Quality Control of ASU &H drugs:Under NAM, govt. will provide support to State ASU &H Pharmacies / Cooperatives, PSU\u2019s, Drug Testing Laboratories to strengthen the ASU &H Drug Control Framework.Furthermore, govt. will also provide grant to State Licensing Authority of ASU &H drugs for providing quality control material.Medicinal Plants:Formation of Technical Screening Committee (TSC) and selection of agency for its successful implementation.Subsequently, govt. will also setup Seed / germ plasm center and various nurseries to ensure proper supply of high standard Quality Planting material.Furthermore, NAM will also provide support for processing of medicinal plant and other post harvest Management activities.National AYUSH mission (NAM) aims to provide better healthcare services by raising the standards of facilities at hospitals, medicines and trained manpower. Moreover, NAM also focuses on educational institutions, medicinal plants and quality control of drugs.References\u2014 Candidates can see the details of National AYUSH Mission at the official website of Ministry of Ayush using the link given below:- https://www.ayush.gov.in/  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}