{"search_data": "ManipurManipur Inner Line Permit (ILP) Online Application Form 2020 at manipurilponline.mn.gov.in PortalManipur Inner Line Permit (ILP) application / registration form 2020 at manipurilponline.mn.gov.in, apply online for special category, regular, temporary or labour permitTable of Contents  Manipur Inner Line Permit (ILP) Apply Online Form 2020-21Manipur ILP Offline Application ProcessTypes of Inner Line Permit in ManipurManipur ILP Payment of FeesManipur Inner Line Permit (ILP) Apply Online Form 2020-21Below is the complete process of how to apply online and fill Manipur Inner Line Permit Online Application Form:-Firstly visit the official website at manipurilponline.mn.gov.inThe homepage for Manipur Inner Line Permit Apply Online will open as shown below:-Manipur Inner Line Permit Apply Online PageHere candidates can see all 4 types of permit. Click on the Inner Line Permit that you wish to apply for. Each permit will result in an online form which needs to be filled up and submitted. For eg- we click at Temporary Permit (Form C) link to open Manipur ILP online application form as shown below:-Manipur ILP Online Application FormPassport size photograph, signature, aadhaar, sponsor photo (for special category & regular inner line permit) and sponsor aadhaar (for special category & regular inner line permit) attachments are must for applying for the permit.Once the Manipur ILP online application form is filled up and submitted, candidates can note application number or download PDF copy of filled up form. This needs to be produced at the entry gate where you have to make the necessary payments and the ILP permit will be generated by the respective officer concerned.Manipur ILP Offline Application ProcessTo apply offline for Manipur ILP, visitor can approach to any of issuing authority as mentioned in the PDF file given here. Here you will have to produce aadhaar card which will be scanned, your signature will be scanned, and your passport photo will also be scanned. The officer who will make all the necessary entry of requisite data. Once it is completed, you have to make the payment and the permit will be generated. For more details, check Manipur ILP Apply Online / Offline Process, check the PDF through the link \u2013 http://manipurilponline.com/images/HOW%20TO%20APPLY.pdfTypes of Inner Line Permit in ManipurThere are 4 types of Manipur ILP which have been described below:-Special Category (Form A) \u2013 People like govt. contractors, investors, traders with business establishments in the state. (3 Year/renewal)Regular Permit (Form B) \u2013 Individuals who visit the state frequently subject to sponser by any permanent resident of the state. (6 months)Temporary Permit (Form C) \u2013 Tourists, business representatives or those who visit for a short period. (15 days)Labour Permit (Form D) \u2013 A specific period to a group of labourers brought by any contractor or firm or company or individual.Manipur ILP Payment of FeesThe following amount of fees must be paid while applying online for Manipur ILP:- \u2014 For special category permit, payment of fees is to done Rs.5000 in the first instance and Rs.10,000 in the subsequent instance. \u2014 For regular permit, payment of fees is to done Rs. 500 in the first instance and Rs.1000 for each renewal. \u2014 Temporary permit requires payment of fees of Rs. 100 in first instance and Rs. 200 for renewal. \u2014 Bulk Permit requires payment of Rs.100 each for individual in the first instance and Rs.100 for renewal.Regulations and guidlines shall not apply to foreigners who shall be regulated and governed by Foreigners (Protected Area) Order, 1958 made under the provision of Foreigners Act, 1946 and the Passport (Entry into India) Rules, 1950 and subsequent amendments.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: http://manipurilponline.mn.gov.in/  at  "}