{"search_data": "Central Subhash Chandra Bose Aapda Prabandhan Puraskar Online Application Form Government of India invites Subhash Chandra Bose Aapda Prabandhan Puraskar Online Application Form at the official website dmawards.ndma.gov.in, award price for institutions is Rs. 51 lakh & for individuals is Rs. 5 lakh \u0939\u093f\u0902\u0926\u0940 \u092e\u0947\u0902 \u092a\u0922\u093c\u0947\u0902Table of Contents  Subhash Chandra Bose Aapda Prabandhan Puraskar Application FormSubhash Chandra Bose Aapda Prabandhan Puraskaar AwardsSubhash Chandra Bose Aapda Prabandhan Puraskar EligibilitySubhash Chandra Bose Aapda Prabandhan Puraskar Application FormBelow is the complete procedure to apply online for Subhash Chandra Bose Aapda Prabandhan Puraskar:-Visit the official website dmawards.ndma.gov.inAt the homepage, click at the \u201cApply\u201d link in the main menu or directly click this linkAfterwards, Subhash Chandra Bose Aapda Prabandhan Puraskar login page will appear as follows:-Subhash Chandra Bose Aapda Prabandhan Puraskar Login PageHere candidates can click at \u201cDon\u2019t Have an account ? Click Here to Register\u201d link to open the registration form as shown below:-Subhash Chandra Bose Aapda Prabandhan Puraskar Registration FormHere candidates needs to fill the complete details and click at the \u201cProceed\u201d button to complete the application process.Check complete guidelines for filling online application form for National Disaster Management Awards. Central government has decided to recognize the excellent work done by individuals and institutions in India in the field of Disaster Management. This would be done by instituting an annual award dedicated to excellence in Disaster Management. The award shall be known as Subhash Chandra Bose Aapda Prabandhan Puraskar.Subhash Chandra Bose Aapda Prabandhan Puraskaar AwardsThere would be upto 3 awards for institutions and individuals. In case the winner is an institution, it would receive a certificate and a cash prize of Rs. 51 lakhs. In case the winner is an individual, winner shall receive a certificate and cash prize of Rs. 5 lakhs.Individuals and Institutions can win cash prize for Disaster Management related activities only. In case the institution apply online for these awards, then individual can also apply for the awards at their individual capacity.Subhash Chandra Bose Aapda Prabandhan Puraskar EligibilityOnly Indian nationals and Indian institutions are eligible to apply for the award. The eligibility criteria to apply online for Subhash Chandra Bose Aapda Prabandhan Puraskar can be checked using the link below:- http://dmawards.ndma.gov.in/Institutions, voluntary organizations, corporate entities, academic/research institutions, response/ uniformed forces or any other institution may apply as an institution for the award.Click at Contact Us link to case of any assistance or any query in filling the online application form.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}