{"search_data": "OdishaOdisha Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana (BPGY) Housing Scheme for 13k Titli Affected FamiliesFinancial assistance of Rs. 1 lakh under Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana (BPGY) in Odisha to 13,000 families affected by cyclone Titli in 11 districts, work orders will be given to the affected households with an estimate cost of 176 croreOdisha Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana (BPGY) for Titli Affected FamiliesAll those 13k families whose houses were completely destroyed by cyclone Titli will get this assistance for houses under Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana (BPGY). The state govt. has also decided to seek assistance of United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) to provide livelihood support to the affected persons. Even UNDP support would be required for providing training to masons and SHGs to prepare construction materials.Chief secretary AP Padhi also took a separate review on the progress of restoration works in the worst-hit Ganjam and Gajapati districts. Panchayati Raj department has given directions to issue work orders by end of this month so that beneficiaries would be able to start work from December 2018.Department must ensure that house construction work will be completed within 6 months from date of getting the work order. The state govt. will provide an assistance of Rs. 1 lakh to families from state disaster response fund. All those families whose houses have been totally damaged in the cyclone and subsequent floods will be given assistance.CM @Naveen_Odisha has directed to allot Biju Pucca Ghar to 13,000 #CycloneTitli affected families in 11 districts with a spending of \u20b9176 crore. For expeditious completion of the work and maintaining transparency, work orders to be submitted on a specified date at block level.\u2014 CMO Odisha (@CMO_Odisha) November 19, 2018The financial assistance as admissible under Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana (BPGY) will be provided to the beneficiaries. Collectors have been given advice to mobilize beneficiaries to utilize both the grants in the construction of their houses.Power supply has been restored to all affected consumers in Ganjam and Gajapati district. Gratuitous relief (GR) has already been distributed to all the affected families in both districts. Till date, around Rs. 249 crore GR has been distributed in Ganjam while Rs. 50.33 crore has been disbursed in Gajpati district. House building assistance of Rs. 191 crore and Rs. 8.27 crore has been released by the Odisha state government.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}