{"search_data": "Andhra PradeshAP Jagananna Vidya Kanuka Kits Scheme 2020-21 (YSR Educational Kit) to Govt. School StudentsAP Jagananna Vidya Kanuka Kits Scheme 2020-21 to 1st to 10th class govt. school students, each education kit to have 6 items with 42 lakh beneficiariesAP Jagananna Vidya Kanuka Kits Scheme 2020-21Below are the complete features and highlights of the scheme:-Name of SchemeJagananna Vidya Kanuka Kits SchemeNumber of Beneficiaries42 lakhCost of Each kitRs. 1,3506 Items in Educational Kits3 pairs of uniform cloth, notebooks / textbooks, 2 pair of socks, school bag, belt, pair of shoesProcurement Order Date12 March 2020Who are Beneficiaries1st to 10th class govt. school studentsAnnounced byCM YSR Jagan Mohan ReddyState NameAndhra PradeshThe state govt. of Andhra Pradesh will distribute these special kits containing 6 items for students studying in public schools. It is important to note that the cost of uniform stitches are deposited in bank accounts of mothers who send their children to schools. The kits would be distributed as soon as the school reopens after summer vacations.Need for AP YSR Vidhya Kanuka SchemeAndhra Pradesh govt. is making all efforts to improve the overall quality of education. In line with Amma Vodi Scheme, Goru Mudda Scheme, Nadu-Nedu, English medium education, AP govt. will provide Vidya Kanuka Kits to each student. The state govt. aims to increase literacy rate and Gross Enrollment Ration (GER) in colleges through these initiatives. Till date, the refurbishment work of 12,365 schools had been initiated in 1st phase of Naadu Nedu Scheme.AP govt. has identified 9 basic components including toilets, fans, drinking water, furniture, repair works, compound walls and English labs. Around 45,000 schools, colleges and hostels would be covered under the Mana Badi Nadu Nedu scheme. English medium curriculum is being developed for class 1 to 6 with thin and child-friendly books along with handbooks for parents. To enable teachers to learn English medium teaching, self-learning apps, training and assessment tests are introduced. From now onward, each school will have an English lab while Telugu will remain a compulsory subject.The state govt. is also spending an additional Rs. 344 crore for the implementation of the Goru Mudda scheme. In this scheme, ration and quality of the food would be verified at 4 levels by different agencies including parents, SHGs, Village and Ward Secretariats and RDOs.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://www.timesnownews.com/education/article/andhra-pradesh-schools-to-re-open-on-august-3-ysr-vidhya-kanuka-for-students-to-launch-on-same-day/594214  at  "}