{"search_data": "HaryanaHaryana BPL List 2019 \u2013 Income Limit Raised for Beneficiary Family Inclusion Haryana BPL List 2019 income limit raised to Rs. 15,000 p.m for inclusion of beneficiary, apply for new pink & yellow rashan cards at e-disha / antyodaya kendraHaryana BPL List 2019 Income limit HikedBPL cards to beneficiaries are essential to get benefits of govt. facilities like wheat, rice, sugar and mustard oil on subsidized rates. Accordingly, Haryana govt. will now prepare ration cards of all those families whose monthly income is less than Rs. 15,000 per month or Rs. 1.80 lakh per annum. This would be done to include maximum eligible families under Haryana BPL List 2019.The state govt. will prepare ration cards of all needy persons and all those people who have crossed BPL or Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) card parameters set during 2008 to 2019 should voluntarily opt out of getting this facility. This should be done so that the benefits of welfare schemes reaches to the poor people who actually needs it.CM also gave an example of \u201cGive-it-Up\u201d campaign which was started by PM Narendra Modi. In that campaign, more than 1 crore families had voluntarily surrendered their LPG Subsidy to ensure that poor people get its benefits. Haryana govt. has also started the process to prepare and issue new pink and yellow cards to BPL families from 21 August 2019.All the eligible beneficiaries can apply for new Pink and Yellow ration cards at any E-Disha Kendra or Antyodya Kendra. At these centers, beneficiary will have to provide their family details. The state govt. has also issued directions for online registration of 1.40 lakh applications. These applications are pending in the Haryana state at level of Deputy commissioners and Additional Deputy Commissioners. This registration process would remain continue till the next announcement.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: http://www.millenniumpost.in/nation/haryana-cm-increases-income-limit-for-bpl-family-to-rs-15000-370095  at  "}