{"search_data": "Central Satyabhama Portal \u2013 Science and Technology Yojana for Aatmanirbhar Bharat in Mining AdvancementSatyabhama (Science and Technology Yojana for Atmanirbhar Bharat in Mining Advancement) portal online registration at research.mines.gov.in, govt. / non-govt. organisation apply onlineTable of Contents  Satyabhama Portal Online Registration Form (Govt / Non-govt Organization)Thrust Areas to Supporting Research in MiningScience and Technology Yojana for Aatmanirbhar Bharat in Mining AdvancementSatyabhama Portal Online Registration Form (Govt / Non-govt Organization)Below is the complete process to make Science and Technology Yojana Registration for Atmanirbhar Bharat in Mining Advancement at Satyabhama Portal:-Firstly visit the official website at http://research.mines.gov.in/At the homepage, click at the \u201cRegistration\u201d tab present in the main menu.In the new window, \u201cPI Registration\u201d page will appear where you can select \u201cgovernment\u201d option as shown below:-Satyabhama Portal PI Registration Government OrganizationHere people can enter the name of the govt. institute and if institute name is not present in the list, then click Add.People can also select the \u201cnon-government\u201d option as shown below:-Satyabhama Portal PI Registration Non Govt OrganisationHere people will have to enter the NGO Darpan ID and PAN number and click at the \u201cVerify\u201d button.The central govt. is laying emphasis on the role of Digital Technologies in promoting research and development in the mining and mineral sector in the country. The govt. appealed to the scientists and researchers in the Mining and Mineral Sector to undertake qualitative and innovative research and development work for Aatma Nirbhar Bharat.Thrust Areas to Supporting Research in MiningThe broad thrust areas to support research in mining are given below:- A) Prospecting / exploration for strategic, rare and rare earth minerals. B) Development of new technology for mineral exploration and mining on land and deep sea to locate and exploit new mineral resources. C) Research in mining methods. This includes rock mechanics, mine designing, mining equipments, energy conservation, environmental protection and mine safety. D) Improve efficiency in process, operations, recovery of by-products and reduction in specification and consumption norms. E) Research in metallurgy and mineral beneficiation techniques to utilize lower grade and finer size ores. F) Extraction of value added products from mine waste, plant tailings etc. G) Development of new alloys and metal related products, etc. H) Evolve low capital and energy saving processing systems. I) Production of materials of high purity. J) Cooperative research among organizations associated with the mineral sector.Science and Technology Yojana for Aatmanirbhar Bharat in Mining AdvancementIn contrast to the present system where research proposals are submitted physically by the Scientists / Researchers, SATYABHAMA Portal allows online submission of project proposals. Moreover, there is an online mechanism for monitoring of the projects and utilization of funds/grants. The researchers can also submit progress reports and Final Technical Reports of the projects in the electronic format in the portal. A User Manual is also available on the Portal where the step-wise procedures for submission of project proposals have been highlighted. The Portal is integrated with NGO Darpan Portal of NITI Aayog.Central govt. gives funds to academic institutions, universities, national institutes and R&D institutions to implement R&D projects under Science and Technology Programme Scheme of Ministry of Mines. It is done to promote research in applied geosciences, mineral exploration, mining and allied areas, mineral processing, optimum utilization and conservation of the mineral resources of the country. The Portal will increase efficiency and effectiveness in the implementation of the Science and Technology Yojana for Aatmanirbhar Bharat in Mining Advancement.The major Institutes where research projects have been funded include IISc Bengaluru, IIT Kharagpur, IIT-Indian School of Mines Dhanbad, IIT Roorkee, IIT Bombay, IIT Delhi, IIT Bhubaneswar, IIT Madras, CSIR \u2013 Institute of Minerals & Materials Technology, Bhubaneswar, CSIR- National Institute for Interdisciplinary Science and Technology, ICAR- Central Arid Zone Research Institute, CSIR- National Geophysical Research Institute, CSIR-NML, National Institute of Technology, Rourkela, Jawaharlal Nehru Aluminium Research Development and Design Centre Nagpur, National Institute of Rock Mechanics Bengaluru, Nonferrous Materials Technology Development Centre Hyderabad etc.The SATYABHAMA Portal can be accessed at research.mines.gov.in. For further information on the Scheme, Ministry of Mines may be contacted at met4-mines@gov.in  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: http://research.mines.gov.in/  at  "}