{"search_data": "Central Mission Raksha Gyan Shakti Launched by Central Govt. for National Defence National Defence Minister launches Mission Raksha Gyan Shakti to encourage Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) for self reliance in defence production, around 10,000 persons of DPSU & OF to be trained on IPR in 2018-19Mission Raksha Gyan Shakti by Central Govt.As a part of the ongoing initiatives to enhance self-reliance in defence, the Dept. of Defense Production has instituted a new framework namely Mission Raksha Gyan Shakti. This mission aims to provide a boost to the IPR culture in indigenous defence industry. Raksha Mantri has launched this mission for the following reasons:-To Provide \u2013IP awareness & trainingCounselling & advisory for IP identification, registration & protectionIPR filing & related servicesTo Create \u2013Support system to DPSUS & Ordnance factoriesA panel of IP attorney\u2019s and consultantsIP news tracker for latest information updatesUnder IP awareness drive, 23 officers have been trained as \u201cMaster Trainers\u201d at RGNIIPM, Nagpur. Moreover, 5283 personnel have been trained till 18 October 2018. Indian defense minister has launched Mission Gyan Shakti in an event organized in New Delhi. This event showcased inventions and innovations achieved by Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), Defence Public Sector Undertakings (DPSUs) and Ordnance Factories (OFs). This has resulted in successful filing of Intellectual Property Right (IPR) applications.Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman also felicitated some of the scientists, who by their inventions and innovations have created some useful products for the nation. Raksha Mantri has applauded the efforts of DGQA in spreading awareness about IPR and promoting a culture of innovation and creation of intellectual property.Speaking at the launch of Mission Raksha Gyan Shakti, an MoD driven pgme focussed towards enhancing IPR culture in Def, @DefenceMinIndia called upon all stake holders to step up as \"more is needed to nurture innovation in def and translate it into commercially viable solutions\" pic.twitter.com/FEKrornS9Y\u2014 Defence Spokesperson (@SpokespersonMoD) November 27, 2018Moreover, she emphasized the need to migrate from the culture of seeking Transfer of Technology (ToT) from foreign sources. This would help in generating Intellectual Property in India and will help in achieving the goal of self-reliance in Defense sector.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}