{"search_data": "Central Digi Yatra Unique Identity \u2013 DY ID for Paperless Boarding of Domestic FlightsDigi Yatra Unique Identity (DY ID) for Booking Domestic TicketsAll the passengers needs to make enrollment at the link of Digi Yatra on the new Airsewa-II portal to get Unique Digi Yatra ID (DY ID) Number. For registration, each passengers needs to produce various ID proof like Aadhaar Card, Driving Licence etc. for verification purpose. After successful verification, each domestic flyer will be allocated a Unique DY ID Number.Aviation Ministry will also ensure that the websites of various Airlines are also updated in order to provide this facility to the passengers. Domestic flyers can utilize this facility at the time of booking tickets. For the first time fair, a candidate possessing DY ID and ticket needs to take Photo ID Card and photograph with them. At the airport, the details and iris scan of the passenger will be captured which will remain in the system forever. Afterwards, whenever a person will travel then that will be a smooth and easy process.Technical Committee comprising of AAI and 4 other private airports have sent this proposal to the Ministry for approval. After approval from the Ministry, DGCA will have to mandate it. In the first phase, this DY ID process will be implemented at 3 airports including Varanasi and Vijayawada.How to Use Digi Yatra ID (DY ID)All the entry points at the Airports will have the E-gate to read the Bar Code / QR Code at the ticket. This bar code contains the Digi Yatra (DY) ID and Ticket Information. The new system will be responsible to authenticate the travel details and the passenger needs to produce the bio-metric for authentication purpose. After a candidate successfully authenticates the ticket, E-Gate will open. A Passenger can access various services like check-in, security check, boarding using QR Code or bio-metric.All the domestic flyers will use stored biometrics to authenticate identity at terminals. DY Linked Airline database will tell them about the flight they booked to ensure security. Moreover, this will also ensure access to boarding gate closure to flight departure time. These 3 processes will eliminate the need to show Paper ID Cards, Tickets and Boarding Cards on domestic flights.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}