{"search_data": "West BengalWest Bengal Krishak Bandhu Scheme Online Registration & Login (Apply Online)West Bengal Krishak Bandhu Scheme 2019-2020 assured income online registration form available at matirkatha.net, now apply online at the official website, also download death benefit application form pdfTable of Contents  WB Krishak Bandhu Scheme 2020 Online Registration Form & LoginDeath Benefit Notification & Application Form DownloadWB Krishak Bandhu Scheme 2019-2020 \u2013 Assured Income & Death BenefitWB Krishak Bandhu Scheme 2020 Online Registration Form & LoginBelow is the complete procedure to apply online for WB Krishak Bandhu Scheme 2020:-Firstly visit the official website matirkatha.netAt the homepage, click at the \u201cKrishak Bandhu\u201d tab as shown below:-West Bengal Krishak Bandhu Yojana Apply OnlineOn the newly opened page, candidates can click at the \u201cKrishak Bandhu Sign In\u201d tab as shown below to make sign in and subsequent registration:-WB Krishak Bandhu Scheme Online Registration LoginAfter clicking this link, the WB Krishak Bandhu Scheme Login Window will appear as shown below:-West Bengal Krishak Bandhu Scheme LoginHere click at the \u201cSign Up\u201d option and then the West Bengal Krishak Bandhu Scheme online registration form will appear as shown below:-West Bengal Krishak Bandhu Scheme Online Registration FormHere candidates can fill all the necessary details accurately and submit the completed registration form.Finally, the candidates will get username and password which is essential for West Bengal Krishak Bandhu Login.Death Benefit Notification & Application Form DownloadAll the candidates can also Download Death Benefit Notification to get information about the death benefit component of Krishak Bandhu Scheme in West Bengal.The state govt. is also inviting West Bengal Krishak Bandhu Scheme application forms for death benefits. The direct link to download the application forms for death benefit is given below:-West Bengal Krishak Bandhu Death Benefit Application Form (English)WB Krishak Bandhu Death Benefit Application Form (Bengal)The application form for death benefits under Krishak Bandhu Scheme of West Bengal will appear as follows:-West Bengal Krishak Bandhu Death Benefit Application FormFor more details, visit the official website at http://matirkatha.net/departmental-circulars/WB Krishak Bandhu Scheme 2019-2020 \u2013 Assured Income & Death BenefitThere are 2 components under West Bengal Krishak Bandhu Scheme which have been described below:-Assured Income \u2013 The state govt. has introduced an assured financial assistance to all farmers and farm household families under a single benefit scheme. It is a single digitized card based identity to all farmers of West Bengal. Direct benefit of this scheme includes 2 further components:-Farmers with 1 or more acre landholding are entitled to get Rs. 5000 p.a for both Rabi & Kharif Seasons. 1st installment will be provided in the month of June and 2nd installment will be provided in the month of November.Also farmers would be given minimum assistance of Rs. 2000 per annum on pro-rata basis.Death Benefit \u2013 Under this death benefit scheme, the families of the farmers would be facilitated with a lumpsum amount of Rs. 2 lakh including suicide. All the farmers whose age is in between 18 to 60 years can avail new insurance policy benefits. The death benefit scheme is effective from 1st January 2019.The personalized authenticated DOA specified database of the farmers is captured digitally and is stored in Krishak Bandhu cloud. This data is analysed and digitally verified with L&LR database synchronization by DOA officers.This system verified authenticated data will be shared with State & District Co-Operative Banks by DOA for direct benefit disbursement. Moreover, the state govt. will also give personalised Krishak Bandhu Digital Smart Card to farmers to authenticate beneficiaries for all further govt assistance in future. For more details, check the West Bengal Krishak Bandhu Scheme Details. Around 72 lakh farmers and farm laborers are going to be benefited from this scheme.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}