{"search_data": "Andhra PradeshDr. YSR Kanti Velugu Scheme Website \u2013 Apply for Eye Screening @ drysrkv.ap.gov.inAP Dr. YSR Kanti Velugu Scheme website functional at drysrkv.ap.gov.in, check guidelines, how to upload phc / district action plan, data sheet, apply online for preliminary eye screening & schemes listTable of Contents  AP Dr. YSR Kanti Velugu Scheme Website / Apply OnlineAP YSR Kanti Velugu Screening Data Sheet (Guidelines)Dr. YSR Kanti Velugu Scheme StrategiesHow To Upload PHC / District Action PlanAP Govt. Health Schemes List 2019AP Dr. YSR Kanti Velugu Scheme Website / Apply OnlineAP govt. is committed to improve the health status and quality of life of its people. The state govt. will focus on health issues to reduce disease burden and creating an enabling environment. People can now access official website of Dr. YSR Kanti Velugu Scheme 2019 through the link given below:- drysrkv.ap.gov.inAP YSR Kanti Velugu Screening Data Sheet (Guidelines)AP YSR Kanti Velugu Programme is a comprehensive and sustainable universal eye care to all the people in the state. The preliminary screening data sheet format is available in the Kanti Velugu Programme Guidelines (Read Here):-Health, Medical and Family Welfare Department will implement this health scheme.Dr. YSR Kanti Velugu Scheme StrategiesAP YSR Kanti Velugu Scheme is a comprehensive and sustainable Universal Eye Care scheme for around 5 crore people in the Andhra Pradesh state. Read strategies through the link given below:- http://drysrkv.ap.gov.in/KantiVelugu.htmlThis proper health care facility would be provided by conducting eye screening and provision of appropriate interventions like distribution of Spectacles, Surgeries in case of Cataract, Glaucoma, Retinopathy, corneal disorders etc.How To Upload PHC / District Action PlanIn order to upload the PHC Action Plan and District Action Plan under AP YSR Kanti Velugu Programme, the following process must be followed:-AP Govt. Health Schemes List 2019Here is a list of schemes pertaining to AP state govt. health programmes and policies:-National Vector Borne Disease Control ProgrammeRevised National TB Control ProgrammeNational Leprosy Eradication ProgrammeNational Program for Control of BlindnessIntegrated Disease Surveillance ProjectEpidemic Control (G.E., Diarrhoea, Cholera and Jaundice)National Iodine Deficiency Disorders Control ProgramNational Program for prevention and control of diabetic, cancer, cardiovascular disease and Stroke (NPCDCS)National Program for Health care of the Elderly (NPHCE)National Programme for prevention and Control of Fluorosis (NPPCF)National Tobacco Control Programme (NTCP)Health care should be within the reach of every citizen. In order to provide basic health facilities to all citizens, AP govt. has introduced and implemented various health schemes and programmes.\u2014 For more details, visit the official website at http://drysrkv.ap.gov.in/index.html  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: http://drysrkv.ap.gov.in/index.html  at  "}