{"search_data": "Andhra PradeshApply/Register Online for Arogya Raksha Health Scheme in APArogya Raksha Premium AmountTo avail the Arogya Raksha scheme benefits, every individual would be required to pay Rs. 100 per month or Rs. 1200 per annum. TO avail the family benefits, ever individual in the family would be required to pay Rs. 1200 per annum as the policy premium.The World Health Organisation, Bill Gates Foundation and other noted health organizations are supporting the government in implementing this scheme.Apply Online for Arogya RakshaRegistrations for Arogya Raksha scheme are being invited and the interested applicants should enroll themselves into the scheme between January 1st and February 28th. The coverage period would however starts from 1st April 2017. The applications are being invited through Mee seva centers across the state.There are a total of 5481 Mee Seva Centers across the state where the application forms for Arogya Raksha scheme can be filled. The list of Mee Seva centers in the state can be found by visiting the link below.List of Mee Seva CentersArogya Raksha scheme would be linked to the Aadhar Number of the beneficiaries and in order to avail the cashless treatment through the scheme, one only needs to show their Aadhar number at any of the empaneled private and government hospitals.Online applications for Arogya Raksha Scheme The interested applicants can also apply online for the Arogya Raksha scheme using the following step by step procedure.STEP 1: Visit the following link to open the website for online application/registration Arogya Raksha Online RegistrationSTEP 2: Enter your Aadhar Number and click \u201cCheck Aadhar\u201d button. As shown in the image belowArogya Raksha SchemeSTEP 3: After clicking \u201cCheck Aadhar\u201d button, you will get an OTP (One Time Password) on your registered mobile number. Enter the OTP an click the \u201cVerify Button\u201d. If your mobile number is not registered, you will be required to visit the nearest Mee-Seva center and get your mobile number registered against your Aadhar Number.STEP 4: Once, OTP is verified, you will see family details on the next screen along the images of family members. Here you can click \u201cApply Arogya Raksha\u201d to register for the scheme.STEP 5: If you are eligible for the scheme, you may proceed to pay the premium through online payment gateway. OR, if you are not eligible, screen will show a message that \u201cFAIL, You are not eligible to register in the scheme\u201d.STEP 6: Pay the premium amount online and you will get a Arogya Raksha Claim Number.STEP 7: YOU ARE DONE! Use this claim number or your Aadhar Number to receive cashless treatment for covered diseases for up to Rs. 2 Lakh.List of Hospitals & Procedures under NTR Arogya Raksha SchemeThe detailed list of government & private hospitals and covered medical procedure & packages can be found at the below links. List of Government Hospitals | List of Private Hospitals | List of Procedures | Follow-Up PackagesFor more information about NTR Arogya Raksha health insurace scheme, please visit the following link http://www.ntrvaidyaseva.ap.gov.in/aarogya-raksha  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}