{"000-section": {"000-title": "Gujarat Govt. Line up Events at Statue of Unity to Promote Tourism"}, "001-section": {"000-title": "Gujarat govt. plans to line up events like international kite flying competition, starting of seaplane services, development of eco-tourism circuits, promotion of wellness tourism to be held at Statue of Unity to boost tourism"}, "002-section": {"000-title": "Events at Statue of Unity to Boost Tourism", "001-normal": "The state government of Gujarat is going to host a 3 day International Kite Festival at the Statue of Unity site. This festival will be inaugurated by CM Vijay Rupani on 8 January 2019. Previously, this festival in which kite flyers from across the world used to be held in Saptura hills. The Statue of Unity is something truly iconic & new and it is a global landmark that govt. need to popularize.", "002-normal": "Gujarat govt. is exploring the feasibility for starting seaplane services from Sabarmati in Ahmedabad to the statue complex. For seaplane services to statue complex, govt. plans 4 places \u2013 Sabarmati river (Ahmedabad), Shetrunji river (Bhavnagar), Dharoi dam (Mehsana) and areas around the Statue of Unity. The technical possibilities are being explored to start such services. Once technical issues are issued, govt. will carry forward this project.", "003-normal": "As per the officials, the Statue of Unity witnesses a daily average of around 8,000 visitors. The highest 1 day average was 28,409 tourists which was recorded on 10 November 2018 (Diwali weekend). Till 23 December 2018, around 4,04,082 people have visited the Statue Of Unity. This site has generated an income of Rs. 10.11 crore through ticket sales.", "004-normal": "The world\u2019s tallest Statue of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel has an immense tourism potential which needs to be unlocked. This site would contribute to the inclusive growth and sustainable development of the entire region. The state govt. is planning to promote wellness tourism and yoga, eateries with tribal delicacies.", "005-normal": "There are various eco-tourism circuits like Zarwani waterfall and govt. plans to provide a variety of things to the visitors. The centre of attraction will be the Statue of Unity but side by side, there will be additional activities. Govt. will also promote bicycle lanes as healthy and refreshing activity. The state govt. also plans a theme park near the complex.", "006-normal": "By organizing several national and international events, tourism is going to make huge contribution to the local economy and will also add to the prosperity of the place. In February 2019, there will be a conference of state election commissioners to review the preparedness of 2019 Lok Sabha elections."}}