{"search_data": "Central DBT Star College Scheme \u2013 Proposal / Criteria / PPT / Activities / List & DetailsDBT Star college scheme support colleges / university dept. offering UG course to improve science teaching, check call for proposals under strengthening component, desirable criteria, activities to be performed b faculty & students, proforma / ppt, nature of assistance, list & complete details at dbtindia.nic.inTable of Contents  DBT Star College Scheme \u2013 Criteria / Activities & Details1. Objectives of Star College Scheme2. Desirable Criteria for Star College Scheme3. Activities to be Performed under DBT Star College Scheme4. Nature of Financial AssistanceCall for Proposal under DBT Star College SchemeUGC Star College Scheme 2018 PPT \u2013 ProformaList of DBT CollegeDBT Star College Scheme \u2013 Criteria / Activities & DetailsThis scheme is to strengthen the academic and physical infrastructure to achieve excellence in teaching and training. The criteria for selection as \u201cStar College\u201d in this scheme are very strict, here we are providing you the details about the scheme:-1. Objectives of Star College SchemeDBT Star College Scheme will enhance quality of learning and evolve original thinking through hands-on experience to experimental work and participation in summer schools. Networking will be promoted to strengthening ties with neighbouring institutions & laboratories. Special training programmes will be conducted to optimize capabilities of faculty.The capabilities of core instrumentation resources will be raised by the procurement of new equipments and up-gradation of existing facilities. Students will get exposure to research laboratories and industries within the country. New standard operating procedures (SOPs) / kits will be devised for interested students who wants to enhance their learning.  Better library facilities would be provided to students and teachers.2. Desirable Criteria for Star College SchemeTill date, around 88 colleges have been supported under the \u201cstrengthening of support\u201d category. This support has resulted in strengthening of infrastructure in laboratories, library, teaching aids and promoted networking with neighboring institutes. Hands-on training and projects related to daily life has enhanced the interest of students to pursue science courses at undergraduate level. The desirable criteria for star college scheme is given as follows:-College must be providing minimum 4 to 5 UG courses in basic sciences such as botany, zoology, applied life science, microbiology, physiology / biochemistry, biotechnology and 1-2 applied courses / PG diploma courses.Adequate in-house faculty expertise in each science departments must be present in each college.Independent laboratories should be there for practicals to accomodate sanctioned student strength.Lecture halls / rooms for theory classes with capacity equals to sanctioned student strength.Basic infrastructure and facilities in laboratories, libraries, LCD / overhead projection facilities, computers with internet access.To apply, the college must be govt. / govt. aided, autonomous included under section 3(f)/12(B) of UGC Act 1956.3. Activities to be Performed under DBT Star College SchemeBoth faculties and students needs to perform various activities under this star college scheme as given below:-For faculty \u2013Faculty improvement programme and their participation in summer courses to enable them to provide proper skill training to students.Change in curriculum to ensure hands on laboratory work.Govt. will lay emphasis on communicating research to students.To introduce internal review process by the students.Feedback from students regarding competence of faculty, adequacy of teaching, laboratory environment  and additional needs.For Students \u2013Students training through summer training, industry visits.Use of IT in classroom, laboratory and library activities.Inclusion of techniques for hands on training.4. Nature of Financial Assistance\u2014 One time non-recurring grant of Rs. 10 lakhs per science department. \u2014 Recurring grant of grant Rs. 3 lakhs per science department p.a for a period of 3 years subject to satisfactory annual review. \u2014 Mentoring and monitoring of scheme Rs. 1 lakhs per year. \u2014 Scheme encourages purchase of multiple copies of routine equipment for science practical in UG courses within ceiling of Rs. 1 lakhs.Call for Proposal under DBT Star College SchemeEvery year, DBT calls for proposals under strengthening component of Star College Scheme from U.G colleges of India. The latest proposal was invited between 15 May 2018 to 31st May 2018. DBT will also call for proposals under the same strengthening component of SCS from UG colleges in 2019 also. To access the proposal page, directly click the link given below:- http://www.dbtindia.nic.in/?s=star+college+schemeThe result of DBT Star College Scheme 2018 can be described as shown in the figure below:-DBT Star College Scheme 2018UGC Star College Scheme 2018 PPT \u2013 ProformaPPT (Proforma) for UGC Star College Scheme 2018 is available to download through the below link:- http://www.dbtindia.nic.in/wp-content/uploads/Proforma-Star-College-Scheme-2018.docxThe Colleges, supported under the Scheme earlier can also apply for addition of new departments in the prescribed proforma which are not included earlier.List of DBT CollegeThe complete list of colleges supported under Star College Scheme can be seen online through the link below:- http://www.dbtindia.nic.in/list-of-colleges-supported-under-star-college-scheme/This list includes 95 colleges with Andhra Pradesh (2), Assam (8), Chandigarh (3), Chhattisgarh (1), Delhi (10), Gujarat (3), Haryana (1), Himachal Pradesh (4), Jammu & Kashmir (3), Karnataka (4), Kerala (3), Maharashtra(13), Manipur (3), Meghalaya (4), Mizoram(1), Odisha(1), Punjab (8), Rajasthan (2), Tamil Nadu (13), Tripura (1), Uttar Pradesh (3), West Bengal (4).  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}