{"search_data": "Himachal PradeshHP Panchvati Yojana \u2013 Green Belt Development Scheme for Rural Senior CitizensHimachal Pradesh Panchvati Yojana - green belt development scheme for rural senior citizens, parks & gardens to be developed with MGNREGA link for elderly peopleHP Panchvati Yojana 1st Phase- Green Belt Development SchemeIn the current financial year, around 100 parks would be developed in different parts of the state under HP Green Belt Development Scheme. HP Panchvati Yojana 1st phase is launched on 8 June 2020 through video conferencing.Blocks / District Selected for Parks & Gardens DevelopmentIn the 1st phase, parks and gardens will be developed in the following areas in the Himachal Pradesh state:-Gohar development block in Mandi district.Bangana development block in Una district.Banjar and Naggar development blocks in Kullu district.Kaza development block in Lahaul-Spiti district.Nagrota Bagwan and Sulah development blocks in Kangra district.Paonta Sahib and Pachhad development blocks in Sirmaur district.Tissa and Bhatiyat development blocks in Chamba district.Kalpa development block in Kinnaur district.Kandaghat development block in Solan district.Rohru development block in Shimla district.Nadaun development block in Hamirpur district.CM mentioned that parks will prove a boon to senior citizens to lead healthy and happy life after taking health benefits from these parks. Moreover, HP state govt. was was striving hard to provide maximum facilities to the people of the state especially senior citizens and Panchvati Yojana is a major step in this direction.The spread of Covid-19 pandemic has forced the policy makers to rethink and reformulate govt\u2019s policies and programmes with special focus on rural development. Around 90% of the Himachal Pradesh population lives in rural areas and so the govt. is focusing on rural oriented policies which had been ensuring an accelerated pace of development in these areas.CM directed state officials to effectively disseminate policies, programmes using social media. PR professionals should think out of the box for effective broadcasting of state\u2019s policies and programmes. The govt. machinery should use latest technologies to publicize the various developmental schemes and success stories. Furthermore, developmental features should be brought out and provided to both print and electronic media.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://www.thestatesman.com/cities/shimla/himachal-launches-panchvati-yojana-elderly-folks-1502897702.html, https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-cm-launches-green-belt-development-scheme-for-rural-senior-citizens/story-esQFfF0kjpOmR6vZyfe4zJ.html  at  "}