{"search_data": "Central, Uttar PradeshSahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana \u2013 Saubhagya Scheme Launched in Uttar PradeshUPPCL will operate this scheme across the state. Furthermore to meet the deadlines, corporation will have to issue connections at a rapid pace. Furthermore, UP state govt. will spend Rs. 7100 crore to implement this scheme.Uttar Pradesh Saubhagya SchemeThe important features of this scheme are as follows:-UP Govt. has identified 153.7 lakh families in rural areas and 3.02 lakh families in urban areas (total 157 lakh families) which does not possess an electricity connection.This accounts to around 40% of the total 4 crore households in the country not having any power connection.UP Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL) will spend Rs. 7,100 crore on this project. Furthermore, Central govt. and State govt. contribution ratio is 60:40.BPL families whose name appears in the SECC-2011 list will get free metered connections. However, other families can get connections for Rs. 500 in 10 installments with their electricity bills.This scheme is launched simultaneously at 2,300 power distribution sub-stations across the state. Moreover, Yogi govt. also provides 1 lakh connections at the launch of this scheme.Saubhagya scheme in UP will provide metered connections and the documents necessary to get these connections are Aadhar Card, Voter Card, Driving License, Bank Account. After the successful verification of personal details, state govt. will provide electricity connections.Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana (PM-SBHGY)UP govt. is carrying forward the Rs. 16,320 crore Saubhagya Scheme of the central government. PM Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana aims to provide electricity connections to 4 crore families living in rural and urban areas till December 2018. PM Saubhagya Scheme has an outlay of Rs 14,025 crore for the rural families and Rs 2,295 crore for the urban families.Central Govt. will identify beneficiaries for free connections using SECC 2011 data. However, other households have to pay Rs. 500 to be recovered by the Power Distribution Companies (DISCOMs) in 10 equal installments through their electricity bills. The Rural Electrification Corporation Limited (REC) will operate this scheme throughout the country. Candidates can see the details of PM Saubhagya Scheme using the link given below:- PM Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Bijli Yojana  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}