{"search_data": "MaharashtraOwnership Pattas (Land Titles) to 2 Lakh Slum Dwellers in MaharashtraMaharashtra govt to give ownership pattas / rights to 2 lakh slum dwellers (women members) to enable them to avail loans from banks on this basis & to provide them with PMAY benefits by constructing pucca houses, the state govt. has completed the process of providing land titles to 25,000 slum dwellersOwnership Rights to Slum Dwellers in MaharashtraMaharashtra is going to provide land titles to slum dwellers with minimum conditions. CM has also assured to provide land titles to slum dwellers who encroached the private land. The state govt. has framed a policy to provide fair compensation to land owners to provide land titles to slum dwellers. Around 2 lakh slum dwellers are going to be benefited from this drive.This is a dream of every individual to possess their own house and to have their own roof. Slum dwellers are residing in pathetic condition over enroached govt. land for the past several years. Now the state govt. has fulfilled its promise to provide ownership rights of their land title. Now, people will have to pay minimum amount for registry of the property. Maharashtra govt. has relaxed various conditions to provide them land titles and govt. will give land titles to the slum dwellers till 2011.Even the state govt. will also give them Rs. 2.50 lakh to improve the condition of their house under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. This move will change their quality of life, raise their living standards and now these people can enjoy the ownership of the house.We are giving ownership rights to the women member from family and will give them benefits of #PMAY by constructing pucca houses. We have completed process for ownership rights to 25,000 slum dwellers and aims to give such benefits to 2 lakh slum dwellers: CM @Dev_Fadnavis pic.twitter.com/r0yYEyEo9s\u2014 CMO Maharashtra (@CMOMaharashtra) December 16, 2018CM @Dev_Fadnavis distributes ownership rights to slum dwellers pic.twitter.com/hp70RfTqMa\u2014 CMO Maharashtra (@CMOMaharashtra) December 17, 2018The central and state governments have also undertaken projects worth of Rs. 66,000 crores in Nagpur only. The state govt. has fulfilled 25 years old demand of slum dwellers. CM is also making consistent efforts to provide land titles to enroachment on private land. The land titles will be distributed from Zone Office from 17 December 2018.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}