{"search_data": "Andhra PradeshAP YSR Rice Doorstep Delivery Scheme 2020 through Public Distribution System (PDS)Andhra Pradesh govt. to start AP YSR Rice Doorstep Delivery Scheme 2020 through Public Distribution System (PDS) from 1 September, home delivery of rice for all BPL ration card holder familiesAP YSR Rice Doorstep Delivery Scheme 2020The state govt. of AP state has already launched YSR Rice Doorstep Delivery Scheme as pilot project in Srikakulam district around 6 months ago. Ap govt. is taking feedback from the locals on the home delivery of rice experiment.Rice Home Delivery Scheme ImplementationThe state govt. has readied comprehensive action plan to launch rice distribution scheme across the entire Andhra Pradesh state from September 2020. For this purpose, govt. is procuring 13370 mobile units equipped with electronic weighing machine. The ceiled rice bags would be opened right in front of the rice scheme beneficiaries. AP govt. will deliver the specified quota of rice to the beneficiaries in separate bags.All the rice bags would be transported from the bags with bar coded mechanism. This AP Rice Doorstep Delivery Scheme will prevent tampering, adulteration and corruption. CM YS Jagan is very particular about delivering of quality of rice as he promised to revamp the entire Rice Distribution Scheme. The state govt. has taken enough care in procurement, distribution and delivery of rice from pilot project.Moreover, the state govt. will take all the corrective measures from the errors in the pilot AP rice card doorstep delivery scheme. The beneficiaries in Srikakulam district who received the door delivery of rice have expressed satisfaction about the implementation of this scheme. Around 2.3 lakh metric tonnes of rice would be delivered to around 1.47 card holders each month.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/amaravati/andhra-pradesh-doorstep-delivery-of-rice-from-sept-1/articleshow/75633112.cms  at  "}