{"search_data": "Central 11 Cr Ayushman Family Cards for Health Insurance under PMRSSM (Modicare)Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY)  \u2013 Complete DetailsPradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Abhiyan to start from 25 September 2018.Modi Govt. has previously announced the Treatment Package Rates and to avail treatment at these rates and other HWC Services, Ayushman Family Cards will be needed. This scheme will cover 10 crore vulnerable families with 50 crore beneficiaries. Ayushman Bharat Beneficiaries can now make registration at Common Service Centers (CSCs)Table of Contents  11 Crore Ayushman Family Cards under PMRSSM (Modicare)Ayushman Bharat Yojana Health Cards DistributionPM Rashtriya Swasthya Suraksha Mission \u2013 Official Website11 Crore Ayushman Family Cards under PMRSSM (Modicare)Govt. is planning to complete all the preparations till 15 August 2018 but the official date of launch is still not known. Central govt. will set-up a 24*7 Call Center in the capital to attend the complaints and queries from the citizens about the scheme. Even the beneficiaries will be given assistance even if outside their home state. The salient features if these Modicare Ayushman Family Cards are as follows:-All the Ayushman Family Cards will contain the names of all those members who are eligible for this Ayushman Bharat Yojana.A personalized letter will also be attached with these Ayushman Cards describing the features of Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Swasthya Suraksha Mission (PMRSSM).Central govt. has already identified around 80% beneficiaries in the Rural Areas and 60% beneficiaries in the Urban Areas.National Toll Free Number will be necessary to contact the Call Center which is a prerequisite for such a huge Health Insurance Scheme.Through these call centers, all the stakeholders will have access to seamless and timely access to information and services. Moreover, these centers will also have the facility of answering e-mails and Online Chats with the people.Ayushman Family Cards will help in identification of beneficiaries and other documents will be required to authenticate the information.Govt. is planning to print around 107 million information letters and family cards nd hand deliver it to the people over the next 2 years.In case the families does not possess these family Health Cards, then those families will not be denied of treatment benefits.Health Card Ayushman Bharat YojanaAyushman Family Cards will reduce the uncertainty of the people whether they are eligible for PM Rashtriya Swasthya Suraksha Mission (Modicare).Ayushman Bharat Yojana Health Cards DistributionOn getting information about the beneficiaries from National Health Agency, the Service Providers will print these Ayushman Family Cards. All the Health Cards will follow the Data Safety Standards and Right to Privacy under Modicare Scheme. Service Providers will then bundle these cards by area code and then dispatch it to the District Headquarters of beneficiaries. Then these Health Cards would be given to the Gram Panchayats and finally to the poor families through major public contact programmes.Mass Functions will be organized like Ayushman Pakhwaras in villages and door-to-door by Health workers. Call Center Service Providers will use the Hub-and-Spoke Model and establish zonal call centres across various parts of the country. Call Centers will also facilitate the National Portability benefits of this PM Rashtriya Swasthya Suraksha Mission (PMRSSM). These call centers will possess geo-tagging capabilities and will enable govt. to serve citizens in efficient and effective ways. All the calls will be then identified on the basis of their location and will be routed to the nearest call center.PM Rashtriya Swasthya Suraksha Mission \u2013 Official Website\u2014 For more details on the National Health Protection Scheme / Modicare / Ayushman Bharat Yojana / Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Swasthya Suraksha Mission, visit the official website \u2013 www.pmjay.gov.in  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}