{"search_data": "Madhya PradeshMukhya Mantri Medhavi Vidyarthi Yojana Online Registration at scholarshipportal.mp.nic.inTable of Contents  Mukhya Mantri Medhavi Vidyarthi Yojana Online RegistrationEligibility Criteria for Mukhya Mantri Medhavi Vidyarthi YojanaBenefit of Mukhya Mantri Medhavi Vidyarthi YojanaMukhya Mantri Medhavi Vidyarthi Yojana Online RegistrationVisit the official website of MP Technical Education Department at mptechedu.org or visit scholarshipportal.mp.nic.in.Click on \u201cApply Online\u201d button.The application/registration form will appear on the screen.Enter all required details in the registration form.The click on \u201cSubmit\u201d button.After clicking the \u201cSubmit\u201d button, your registration is successful, download the printable form from the next screen.After downloading the form, take a print out of the form for further use.Eligibility Criteria for Mukhya Mantri Medhavi Vidyarthi YojanaThe student must belong to Madhya Pradesh state.The annual income of the student\u2019s parents should be less than Rs. 6 lakh.The student should have obtained 75 per cent or more marks in 12th Board examinations conducted by Madhya Pradesh Board of Secondary Education.The students securing 85 per cent or more in 12th Board examinations conducted by CBSE/ICSE.The student\u2019s Aadhar number is also required.Benefit of Mukhya Mantri Medhavi Vidyarthi YojanaStudents obtaining up to 50,000 rank in the Engineering \u2013 JEE mains examinations would also be eligible for admission to Government or non-Government engineering colleges. Entire fees of Government college will be provided under the scheme. In private colleges, Government will bear maximum of Rs. 1.5 lakh or the actual fees, whichever is lower. The fee would be excluding the Mess fee and caution money in both govt. and private colleges.Students taking admissions in MBBS in any govt. or private college of state of central govt. can avail the benefits of Mukhyamantri Medhavi Vidyarthi Yojana. The admissions in MBBS must be based on the rank achieved in Medical-National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET). In case of admission in government or private colleges, the entire fee and charges would be borne by the state govt.Course Covered under MMMVY \u2013 Engineering courses \u2013 Medical courses \u2013 Law courses \u2013 Integrated post Graduation courses from SPA Bhopal or IIM Indore \u2013 Graduation/Under Graduation courses- B.SC., B.COM, Nursing, Polytechnic etc.To get more detail about the scheme in Hindi click on below link Download PDF file  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}