{"search_data": "Central Jan Dhan 2 Scheme \u2013 PM Jan Dhan Yojana Open Ended with More IncentivesJan Dhan 2 Scheme \u2013 PM Jan Dhan Yojana is Now Open Ended with More IncentivesThe important features which have been included in Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana are as follows:-Accidental Insurance Now Rs. 2 Lakh \u2013 All the people who opens new Jan Dhan Bank Accounts after 28 August 2018 will now get Free Accident Insurance Cover of double amount of Rs. 2 lakh.PM Jan Dhan Yojana Accidental Insurance Cover IncreasedOver-draft Limit Now Rs. 10,000 \u2013 Now there would be no conditions attached for overdraft of upto Rs. 2,000. Now the maximum limit for over-draft is set at Rs. 10,000 (previously Rs. 5,000). IN PMJDY, this facility is available after 6 months of opening bank accounts.Till date, around 30 lakh people have availed the benefits of over draft facility. Over-Draft facility means that the account holder can withdraw money from his account which is more than the actual balance present in bank account.Upper Age Limit now 65 Years \u2013 Also the upper age limit to avail the Jan Dhan Yojana facility is now raised from 60 years to 65 years.PMJDY Age Limit Overdraft RaisedThere are around 32.41 crore Jan Dhan Account holders and total deposit balance has now reached to Rs. 81,200 crore.Now the Central govt. has decided to continue the flagship PM Jan Dhan Yojana financial inclusion scheme. PMJDY will now focus on opening account from every household to every adult.Jandhan-Aadhaar-Mobile (JAM) linking will continue to provide the essential backbone to cover various activities. This includes Banking / Savings & Deposit Accounts, Remittance, Credit, Insurance, Pension in an affordable manner.This decision to make Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana an open ended scheme will accelerate the pace of digitised financially included and insured society. In Jan Dhan 2 Scheme, overdraft is raised to Rs. 10,000, Upper Age limit is now 65 years and accidental insurance now Rs. 2 lakh.PM Jan Dhan Yojana Insurance Cover Age Limit Overdraft IncreasedPradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana \u2013 BackgroundThis scheme was launched in 2014 to open basic bank accounts and Rupay Debit Card with inbuilt accident insurance cover of Rs. 1 lakh. All the poor people can open zero balance bank accounts with overdraft facility of Rs. 5000 after 6 months. Accounts can be opened in any bank branch and business correspondent (Bank Mitr) outlet. If the account holder wishes to get cheque book, he / she will have to fulfill minimum balance criteria.World Bank Report Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan YojanaPhase II started from 15 August 2015, and the main aim was to provide micro-insurance to people and pension schemes to unorganized sector workers through Business Correspondents. This phase ended last month. Jaitley said that around 53% of PMJDY account holders are women and 83% of total accounts are seeded with Aadhaar. For more details, visit the official website https://pmjdy.gov.in/  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}