{"search_data": "OdishaFood Odisha Ration Card Application Form PDF Download (Online / Offline) Food Odisha Ration Card Application Form (PDF) Download now available online at foododisha.in, download PDS Odisha ration card apply form PDF 2019 to include name in rashan card listOdisha govt. has made this ration card new list public to make the process of finding name easier. Now candidates can search their name in the APL BPL List. For inclusion of their name in Ration card list (\u0930\u093e\u0936\u0928 \u0915\u093e\u0930\u094d\u0921 \u0938\u0942\u091a\u0940), people can also make new ration card form download Odisha pdf as given below.Table of Contents  Odisha Ration Card 2019 Application Form PDF Download OnlineOdisha FPS Report & Dealers ListPDS Odisha Ration Card Apply Offline \u2013 APL / BPL / AAYRequirements for Ration Card Form PDF Odisha (Offline Method)List of Documents for New Ration Card in OdishaOdisha Rashan Card 2019Odisha Ration Card 2019 Application Form PDF Download OnlineIn order to make fresh application for the Ration Card in Odisha, all the candidates must follow the procedure given below:-Firstly visit the official link http://www.foododisha.in/eBitaran.asp?lnk=31At this page, click at the \u201cRation Card Application Form under NFSA-2013\u201d link.Direct Link \u2013 Download Ration Card Application Form PDF OdishaThe application form for the Odisha New Ration Card will appear as shown in the figure:-Odisha Ration Card Application Form PDF DownloadCandidates can fill all the necessary details accurately and submit it to the concerned authorities.Moreover, candidates can fill Odisha food security ration card application form and apply online as mentioned in the User Manual at PDS Odisha website by clicking the link \u2013 Odisha State Food Security Scheme Beneficiary RegistrationOdisha FPS Report & Dealers ListAll the candidates can check the complete FPS Report for Odisha through the link:- PDS Odisha Ration Card FPS ReportHere candidates can check the list of dealers with ration cards, number of FPS with range of ration card and no. of FPS dealing with only Kerosene.PDS Odisha Ration Card Apply Offline \u2013 APL / BPL / AAYAlternatively, all the citizens can even apply offline for ration card in Odisha. The state govt. issues Above Poverty Line (APL), Below Poverty Line (BPL) and Antodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) ration cards to the citizens. The procedure to avail Food Odisha Ration Card can be checked through the link:- http://www.foododisha.in/Download/citizen_pds.pdfRequirements for Ration Card Form PDF Odisha (Offline Method)There are following requirements for Ration Card in Odisha:-All the candidates can also obtain the application form for a new Ration card from any circle office / S.D.O office.People must posses passport sized photographs of the head of family attested by a gazetted officer / MLA / MP / Municipal Councillor. He / She must also have specified proof of residence and the surrender / deletion certificate of the previous Ration Card (if any).In case the proof of residence is not available, then the circle FSO / S.I. / M.O. conducts spot inquiries and records the statements of 2 independent witnesses in neighbourhood.The standard prescribed time schedule for the Ration Card preparation is generally 15 days. Although the procedure and time limit can vary from state to state.The state govt. has also made a provision for making amendments to valid Ration Cards.List of Documents for New Ration Card in OdishaThe following documents are necessary to submit the Ration Card application form in Odisha:-List of DocumentsRecent Passport Size PhotographAadhaar CardPrevious Electricity BillsPAN CardGas ConnectionBank PassbookCaste CertificateIncome CertificateOdisha govt. will issue new ration cards for all the citizens whether BPL or APL or AAY beneficiaries. It is necessary for getting ration through the distributors at various ration shops. Furthermore, all the citizens can check their name in the PDS Odisha Ration Card New List 2018 at the official website of Food and Civil Supplies Dept. of Odisha. For more details, visit the official website at http://www.foododisha.in/Odisha Rashan Card 2019A Ration Card is an essential document issued by the state government for the purchase of essential commodities from fair price shops. There are different ration cards for Above Poverty Line (APL), Below Poverty Line (BPL) and Antyodaya families. It is a very useful document for Indian citizens as it saves money in procurement of essential commodities at a subsidized rate.The ration card in Odisha could also be used as a proof of identification for other documents like Domicile Certificate, for inclusion of your name in the Electoral Rolls etc. In addition to the permanent ration cards, all the states can also issue temporary Ration cards which would remain valid for a specified number of months and are issued for relief purposes.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: foododisha.in  at  "}