{"search_data": "Andhra PradeshAndhra Pradesh Jala Dhara Yojana \u2013 Drinking Water to Families in Village PanchayatsAndhra Pradesh govt. to launch Jala Dhara Yojana to ensure drinking water supply to families in 48,363 village panchayats, AP Jala Dhaara scheme (mega water grid project) to benefit 1.61 cr families and is to be implemented with an outlay of Rs. 22,300 croreAP Jala Dhara Yojana \u2013 Drinking Water Supply ProjectAP govt. will start a new drinking water supply project namely Jala Dhara Yojana at a cost of Rs. 22,300 crore to supply drinking to families by pipelines to over 48,000 village panchayats of the state. This is one of the biggest investment of the govt. to tackle the drinking water crisis particularly in rural areas. Jala Dhaara Scheme is going to serve protected drinking water to nearly 1.61 crore population in rural areas.The state govt. has sanctioned funds for this mega project and is also taking loans from the Asian Development Bank and other nationalised banks. The estimated cost of the water grid is around Rs. 22,300 crore. This scheme has been designed the drinking water scheme to eradicate the water problem forever in village panchayats.In 10 districts, tenders have already been finalised and the process is in progress for 3 districts of Chittoor, East Godavari and Srikakulam. The Jala Dhara Yojana project is divided into 3 zones on the basis of water availability. In the 1st phase, the primary focus will be on Krishna, East Godavari, West Godavari, Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts. In these districts, water availability is more as compared to other districts and govt. will provide tap connections. The 1st phase of the works would be taken up with an outlay of Rs. 15,000 crore.As per the initial design, drinking water is going to be drawn from these water projects and will be supplied to villages through the pipelines. All the designs had been made to meet the drinking water requirements of villagers upto FY 2040 and each person to get at-least 70 litres of water per day. Around 26.27 tmcft of water would be required for the water grid. The water pipelines will be laid without causing inconvenience to the people in the villages and plan is designed to supply drinking water to the families living in over 48,000 villages.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}