{"search_data": "Tamil Nadu750 ml Amma Water Bottles Made of Glass by Tamil Nadu GovernmentTamil Nadu govt. to start production of 750 ml Amma Water Bottles made of glass to reduce usage of single use plastic at Rs. 7, 2 lakh units to be produced in 1 dayTamilnadu 750 ml Amma Water Bottles SchemePeople on bus stands and railway stations purchase 1 litre water bottles but are unable to consume it. So to reduce the wastage of water and eliminate the use of single use plastic, TN govt. will start production of 750 ml Amma Water Bottles. These bottles are to be made with glass with each bottle cost is around Rs. 7. Institute of Road Transport (IRT), an agency under Tamil Nadu state transport department has already floated the tenders for Amma Water Bottles.The tenders are to install necessary machines to manufacture 1 litre & 750 ml packaged drinking water at 2.4 acres Gummdipoondi campus for next 5 years. Previously installed machines were found defected and so production of Amma Water Bottles was affected. Now, the outdated machines would be replaced with high end drinking water treatment plant, bottling plant and testing labs.This installation of new Amma Water Bottles machines will ensure that there is no compromise on hygiene and estimate it for Rs. 250 crore. On revamp, production unit will be able to produce at-least 2 lakh one litre and 750 ml bottles. These glass water bottles are to be distributed across 310 recognized selling points and to AC bus passengers run by State Express Transport Corporation (SETC). The last date to submit bids is 15 November 2019.Tamilnadu Amma Water Bottle SchemeRegular bus passengers in Tamil Nadu are quite impressed by 750 ml Amma Water Bottles Scheme. This is because of smaller size of water bottles, lower cost and even glass bottles can be reused in home. The production company may appoint employees to sell Amma Water Bottles inside buses or trains just like private companies. Moreover, these companies may also provide water refilling stations which will further cut bottle cost to Rs. 2 to Rs. 3.The low cost mineral water scheme was earlier launched in 2013 by late CM J Jayalalithaa. This scheme was later expanded to some government hospitals for patients.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/chennai/soon-state-govt-to-launch-750ml-amma-water-bottles-made-of-glass/articleshow/71962697.cms  at  "}