{"search_data": "Central Now UIDAI Aadhaar Virtual ID (16 Digit VID) Mandatory for KYC for Security ConcernsTable of Contents  What is 16 Digit Virtual ID \u2013 Concept & Security FeaturesHow to Generate Aadhaar Virtual ID at uidai.gov.inReferencesWhat is 16 Digit Virtual ID \u2013 Concept & Security FeaturesIn the month of March, there was a security concern regarding the privacy of our personal details in Aadhaar Card. As various companies and banks ask for 12 digit Aadhaar Card Number for authentication necessary to provide services to its customers. People furnish their important personal details like biometrics, age, finger prints without knowing that if such data is leaked, this could become a major problem for their privacy.So to ensure Data Privacy and Security, central government has introduced a new concept of Virtual ID in April 2018. This is a 16 digit temporary random number and can be referred to as \u201cAadhaar Clone\u201d. Anyone can now provide this 16 digit VID number to complete verification process instead of 12 digit Aadhaar Number.Aadhaar Virtual ID KYC NotificationBut various banks and companies did not possess the required system to accept such IDs. So, Reserve Bank of India has given 3 months time to all such banks and companies to make changes in their system and to make it compatible for accepting Aadhaar Virtual ID. This time duration is now ended and VID system will be applicable across the country from 1 July 2018. To know more about the Virtual ID Features and Working \u2013 Aadhaar Card Virtual ID \u2013 VID Working & FeaturesHow to Generate Aadhaar Virtual ID at uidai.gov.inThis 16 Digit VID number can be generated any number of times and is valid for a single authentication process (maximum 1 day lifetime). Each VID can be utilized once for authentication. If a candidate again generates a VID number than previous number will automatically get cancelled and the new one will replace that number.16 digit VID is revocable and expires after a limited time period. VID Virtual ID will limit the storage and collection of personal and demographic data of all the Aadhaar Holders. People can easily generate this ID in 3 easy steps at the offical website uidai.gov.in. To see complete procedure, click the link given below:- How to Generate / Retrieve Aadhaar Virtual ID (VID)Aadhaar Virtual Number can be utilized to open a Bank account, to avail Government Subsidy, Tatkaal Passport, Purchase of New Insurance policy etc.References\u2014 To directly generate / retrieve VID (official website link) \u2013 Click Here (Direct Link) \u2014 For more details, visit the official website \u2013 uidai.gov.inAlso Read \u2013 PAN-Aadhaar Linking Deadline Notification \u2013 Last Date to link PAN Card with Aadhar Card Etended till 31 March 2019 \u2013 View Details  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}