{"000-section": {"000-title": "Kerala KITE\u2019s Online Open Learning (KOOL) Training Platform Registration for Teachers"}, "001-section": {"000-title": "Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) has rolled out its its Online Open Learning training platform KOOL to train students, teachers & general public, make registration and fill application form for KITE's Online Open Learning (KOOL) Training platform at kool.itschool.gov.in from 25 November 2018"}, "002-section": {"000-title": "Kerala KITE\u2019s Online Open Learning \u2013 KOOL Training Teachers Registration", "001-normal": "The registrations of teachers for KOOL training platform for KITE\u2019s Online Open learning will start from 25 November 2018 at <https://kool.itschool.gov.in/>. As soon as the registration process will start for teacher\u2019s training, we will update the registration form and other details to fill the KOOL application form here.", "002-normal": "Learning management systems were a part of the approach paper on Samagra resource portal. KOOL platform is an extended version of Samagra resource portal of the education department. It has an array of features for learners such as animated learning assistants, video tutorials and check list to practise activities.", "003-normal": "There are around 200 mentors on the KOOL platform which have the capability to train 4,000 persons at a time. To clear the probation period, it is mandatory for every teacher to complete at-least 45 hours of computer course. More than 5,000 teachers have approached KITE to seek such courses and initial training in KOOL is being incorporated with suitable modules.", "004-normal": "In the first batch of KOOL programme, there would be around 2,500 teachers included and there would be one mentor for every 20 teachers. KITE\u2019s learning management programme would be of 6 week and will include creation of word documents, spreadsheet, presentation, image editing, video-audio editing, development of digital resources, Malayalam typing, internet and educational applications. After the completion of the course, each teacher would be awarded certificates. For more details, visit the website through the link given below:-  \n https://kite.kerala.gov.in/KITE/index.php/welcome/ict/19", "005-normal": "A proposal in this regard has been submitted to the state govt. by KITE. This proposal is currently seeking approval to declare the KOOL certificate acceptable to declare the probation of teachers. KOOL is going to be the largest training programme in the state. KITE is also planning to include more courses under KOOL online open learning training platform to not only benefit teachers and students but to the general public as well."}}