{"search_data": "Central PM Karam Yogi Maandhan (PMKYM) Scheme Online Application Form / Eligibility & Pension Details PM Karam Yogi Maandhan (PM-KYM) Scheme or Laghu Vyapari Mandhan Yojana application form at maandhan.in/vyapari, apply online for national pension scheme for retail traders, small shopkeepers & self employed persons, beneficiaries with turnover less than 1.5 cr to get Rs. 3,000 p.m as pension under PM Karmayogi Mandhan Yojana \u0939\u093f\u0902\u0926\u0940 \u092e\u0947\u0902 \u092a\u0922\u093c\u0947\u0902Table of Contents  PM Karam Yogi Maan Dhan Scheme Online RegistrationPM Karmayogi Mandhan Yojana Apply Offline at CSCsPradhan Mantri Karam Yogi Maandhan (PM-KYM) SchemeEligibility for PM Karam Yogi Mandhan YojanaNeed for PM Karam Yogi Maan Dhan SchemePMKYM Pension Scheme for Retail Traders & Small Shopkeepers ApprovalNational Pension Scheme for Traders & Self Employed Persons BenefitsReferences for PM Laghu Vyapaari Mandhan YojnaPM Karam Yogi Maan Dhan Scheme Online RegistrationThe online registration process for PM Karam Yogi Maandhan Scheme (PM Laghu Vyapaari Maandhan Yojana) has been started at maandhan.in/vyapari. Now people can apply online for PM Laghu Vyapari Maan-dhan Yojana from any common service centre (CSC) or can perform self enrollment. The complete process to apply for PMLVMY scheme is given below:-Firstly visit the official website at https://maandhan.in/vyapariAt the homepage, click at the \u201cClick here to Apply Now\u201d link to open the page as shown below:-National Pension Scheme Traders Apply OnlineHere people can choose process of registration either \u201cSelf Enrollment (using mobile number & OTP)\u201d or \u201cCSC VLE (using CSC connect)\u201d to apply onlineFor Self Enrollment process, the applicants will have to make login as shown below:-PM Laghu Vyapari Mandhan Yojana LoginOn entering the mobile number, PM Karam Yogi Mandhan Yojana registration page will appear as below:-PM Laghu Vyapari Maandhan Yojna Mobile No. RegistrationAfterwards, a dashboard will open containing the name of schemes \u2013 Pradhan Mantri Kisan Maandhan Yojana, PM Shram Yogi Maandhan Yojana and National Pension Scheme for Traders & Self Employed Persons Yojana.Select Enrollment option and select the scheme name to open the subscriber enrollment form for National pension scheme for traders & self employed persons yojana:-Apply Online Form Laghu Vyapari Mandhan YojanaEnter complete details accurately to avail pension scheme benefits under PM karam yogi maandhan scheme.The PMLVM form PDF then can be verified online and e-registration process will curb corruption and result in fast implementation of this National Pension Scheme for retail traders and small shopkeepers. The complete nomination process for National Pension Scheme for traders takes just 3 to 5 minutes.PM Karmayogi Mandhan Yojana Apply Offline at CSCsAll the interested people can even enrol themselves for Pradhan Mantri Karmayogi Mandhan Yojana through more than 3,25,000 Common Service Centres (CSCs) spread across the country.People can take their aadhaar card along with their savings / Jan-dhan bank account passbook to their nearest common service centers (CSCs).At the CSC, your monthly contribution amount would be decided depending on your age.Pay your first monthly contribution for PM Laghu Vyapari Maan-dhan Yojana at CSC itself.Put your signature on nomination and auto debit mandate.Then your Traders Pension Card will get generated. The next contributions would be deducted from the bank accounts itself.Central govt. is going to make matching contribution in the subscribers account. For example \u2013 if person of 29 years age contributes Rs. 100 per month, then central govt. would contribute equal amount as subsidy into subscribers pension account every month.Pradhan Mantri Karam Yogi Maandhan (PM-KYM) SchemePradhan Mantri Karam Yogi Maandhan Scheme has been launched to cover all small shopkeepers and traders with turnover below Rs. 1.5 crore. Here are the features and highlights of PM Modi Retail Traders & Shopkeepers Pension Scheme:-Under PM-KYM Pension Scheme, all shopkeepers, retail traders and self-employed persons would be provided with an assured minimum monthly pension of Rs. 3,000.All the traders and small shop owners across the country are entitled for this pension benefits on attaining the age of 60 years.All PM Karam Yogi Maan Dhan Scheme beneficiaries must have annual turnover less than Rs. 1.5 crore.The age of the Pradhan Mantri Karmayogi Mandhan Yojana beneficiary must lie between 18 to 40 years.PM Retail Trader\u2019s Pension Scheme will cover 3 crore small shopkeepers and retail traders.Documents Required for PM Karam Yogi Mandhan Scheme \u2013 PMKYM scheme is based on self-declaration as no documents are required except Aadhaar and bank account.Eligibility for PM Karam Yogi Mandhan YojanaThe eligibility criteria to become eligible for PM Karam Yogi Maandhan Yojana is described below:- \u2014 Only small shopkeepers, traders in the age group of 18 to 40 years are eligible. \u2014 The applicant must not be an existing beneficiary of EPFO, ESIC, NPS, PM-SYM schemes or an income tax payee. National Pension Scheme for Traders and Self Employed Persons Yojana is a government scheme meant for old age protection and social security of Shopkeeper\u2019s, Retail traders and Self Employed persons.Need for PM Karam Yogi Maan Dhan SchemePM Modi has laid a pension architecture for trading community to assure a life of dignity, honour and to provide them with financial security during their old age. This retailers pension scheme named PM Karam Yogi Maan Dhan Scheme is another major welfare step for the betterment of traders, small and medium business. Simplification of GST process, Mudra loans, easy business loans upto Rs. 1 crore are some of the other welfare measures for retail traders and small shop keepers.PMKYM Pension Scheme for Retail Traders & Small Shopkeepers ApprovalIn the 1st cabinet meeting of Modi 2.0, govt. has cleared new PMKYM Pension scheme for retail traders and small shopkeepers. In order to know more about the PM Karam Yogi Maan Dhan Scheme approval, click the link given below:- Pradhan Mantri Karmayogi Mandhan Yojana ApprovalCCEA led by PM Narendra Modi in its 1st meeting has also taken some other major decisions:- \u2014 PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana expansion for all \u2014 PM Scholarship Scheme (PMSS) Assistance Raised \u2014 Pradhan Mantri Kisan Pension YojanaNational Pension Scheme for Traders & Self Employed Persons BenefitsThe benefits of National Pension Scheme for traders, small shopkeepers and self employed persons are as follows:-Each beneficiary to get fixed monthly pension of Rs. 3,000 per month on attainment of 60 years of age.NPS for traders & self employed persons is a voluntary contribution scheme for traders, retailers, small shopkeepers.Central govt. will also pay matching amount of contribution.The monthly contribution amount will range from Rs. 55 to Rs. 200 as per the age of applicant.The pension amount would be provided through Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) of India.In order to avail benefits, all the vyaparis are advised to fill the form at nearest CSCs or through official website at maandhan.in/vyapari. All the small shopkeepers and retail traders with annual turnover less than Rs. 1.5 crore would be its beneficiaries.References for PM Laghu Vyapaari Mandhan Yojna\u2014 In case of any query, applicants can call on toll free number at 1800 267 6888 or can send an e-mail at vyapari@gov.in or shramyogi@gov.in \u2014 For more details, visit the official website at https://maandhan.in/vyapari  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}