{"search_data": "Central MSME Sampark Placement Portal \u2013 Online Registration for Job Seekers & RecruitersTable of Contents  MSME Sampark Placement Portal \u2013 Job Seekers & Recruiters Online Registration1. Jobseekers Online Registration Form and Process2. Recruiters Online Registration Form and ProcessMSME Technology Centres (MSME TCs)Udyam Sangam 2018ReferencesMSME Sampark Placement Portal \u2013 Job Seekers & Recruiters Online RegistrationMinistry of MSME has launched MSME Sampark Portal to bridge the gap between Recruiters and Job Seekers. Below is the complete procedure to register online as Job Seeker & Recruiters:-1. Jobseekers Online Registration Form and ProcessJobseekers can get employment as per their skill sets with role, position, experience, salary, location. The complete procedure to make online registration has been specified below:-Visit the official website sampark.msme.gov.inOn the homepage, click at the \u201cJobseeker\u201d link on the top right corner and then click \u201cRegistration\u201d or directly click this linkThen the MSME Sampark Job Seeker Registration Form 2018 will appear as follows:-MSME Sampark Job Seeker Online Registration FormHere fill all the details including Date of Birth, E-mail ID, Contact Number and then click at the \u201cRegister\u201d button to complete the registration process.After completion of the Registration Process, Jobseekers can make Login in the \u2018Jobseekers Login Form\u2018.Furthermore, candidates can also generate new Password through the link \u2013 Generate Jobseeker PasswordFor making any Enquiry, jobseekers can use the link \u2013 Jobseeker Enquiry Form2. Recruiters Online Registration Form and ProcessThis portal will enable small businesses and entrepreneurs to find appropriate talented person for their job having relevant experience and skill-set. The complete procedure for Recruiters Registration is as follows:-Visit the same official website sampark.msme.gov.inAt homepage, click at the \u201cRecruiter\u201d link on the top right corner and then click at the \u201cRegistration\u201d link or directly click this linkThen the MSME Sampark Recruiter Registration Form 2018 will appear as follows:-MSME Sampark Recruiter Online Registration FormHere recruiters have to fill the Company Details and Nodal Officer Details and click at the \u201cRegister\u201d button to complete the Registration Process for Recruiters.Finally, Recruiters can make login in the Recruiters Login FormFor making any Enquiry, recruiters can use the link \u2013 Recruiters Enquiry FormFor more details of the application process for Recruiters or Job Seekers, click the link \u2013 How it WorksMSME Technology Centres (MSME TCs)MSME Sampark is a placement portal for MSME Technology Centres Trainees. There are 18 MSME Technology Centres which a candidate can access using the link given below:- MSME Technology CentersUdyam Sangam 2018President of India has also inaugurated Udyam Sangam 2018 on 2nd UN Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Day (27 June 2018). Udyam Sangam is an essential initiative to develop effective eco-system for MSME sector. This will also develop skill pool and will enable trained youth to learn more about different employment opportunities.MSME sector is the 2nd largest employment provider sector in India after agriculture and is also the backbone of the economy. This sector generates more employment opportunities at lower investment cost. The most striking feature is that it creates jobs in rural and backward areas. MSME sector will realize the goal of achieving inclusive growth through empowerment of weaker sections and decentralization of development.References\u2014 In case of any query, candidates can send an email to sampark-msme(at)gov(dot)in or can call on the Toll Free Number \u2013 18001238191 \u2014 For more details, visit the official website http://sampark.msme.gov.in/  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}