{"000-section": {"000-title": "MP Rent and Own Housing Scheme 2020 \u2013 Buy a Property, Pay Rental & Get Ownership"}, "001-section": {"000-title": "Madhya Pradesh govt. to start MP Rent and Own Housing Scheme 2020, people can buy a property, pay rental equal to installment & get ownership"}, "002-section": {"000-title": "MP Rent and Own Housing Scheme 2020 \u2013 CM Awas Mission", "001-normal": "MP Chief Minister Kamal Nath asked officials from Urban Administration Department (UAD) to focus more on CM Awas Mission. People would now be able to buy a new property by paying installments equals to rent of house and thus getting ownership. This MP Rent and Own Housing Scheme 2020 are an ultimate option for buyers or tenants who does not qualify for home loans due to poor credit scores. People can now pay rent on time which would even serve for them as house installment and there credit score would be improved along with getting new house ownership.", "002-normal": "By the new MP Rent and Own Housing Scheme 2020, people will get more flexibility in choosing the right home for themselves. Buyers could tune themselves to the market situation. That is, they could stay on rent till the prices do not drop. Later when prices stabilise they could plan to buy a property. Buyers under rent-to-own scheme will have the advantage of experiencing community living and judge if the apartment matches their lifestyle before taking the plunge.", "003-normal": "CM Kamal Nath raised the issue of share of state government in Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) housing scheme. He said that the state govt\u2019s share is more in PMAY in providing residencies to people then why is PM Awas Yojana given more importance. All the officers of the Urban Administration Department (UAD) should ensure that appropriate importance should be given to the CM Awas Mission.", "004-normal": "UAD officials also told that there are financial crisis for UAD department as state government is not getting central government\u2019s share on time. Financial challenges came from the state government as well. CM asked officials to study Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra model of housing and to replicate appropriate clauses in Madhya Pradesh.", "005-normal": "Source / Reference Link: https://www.freepressjournal.in/bhopal/bhopal-kamal-nath-govts-eyes-home-buyers-with-rent-and-own-scheme"}}