{"search_data": "Central Ayushman Bharat Health Benefit Packages Revision \u2013 237 HBP Added, Rates of 270 HikedAyushman Bharat Health Benefit Packages Revision done by NHA, 237 HBP added, rates of 270 packages hiked to address price issue & to empanel more private hospitalsTable of Contents  Ayushman Bharat Health Benefit Packages RevisionPackages under Ayushman BharatCancer Care Revamp in Ayushman Bharat HBP RevisionAyushman Bharat Scheme \u2013 Addressing Price MovementAyushman Bharat Health Benefit Packages RevisionThe revision of Health Benefit Packages (HBP) of Ayushman Bharat Scheme will motivate more private hospitals to join the PMJAY scheme. People can now check the HBP packages revision in the table below:-Rates After AB-HBP RevisionNumber of PackagesIncrease in Rates270 PackagesAdopted43 PackagesNo Change469 PackagesReduction in Rates57 PackagesDiscontinued554 PackagesNewly Added237 PackagesNHA has made an attempt to keep prices of abuse prone packages at minimum level to minimize incentives for abuse. With revision in Ayushman Bharat health benefit packages, many new private hospitals will get empanelled with PMJAY scheme. This is going to improve the access to good quality healthcare and lakhs of vulnerable families will receive free treatment.Packages under Ayushman BharatPMJAY health insurance scheme is offering 1,393 treatment packages for cashless and paperless treatment. Out of these, 1,083 packages are surgical, 309 medical and one unspecified package. These AB health benefit packages includes cost of diagnostics upto 3 days before hospitalization and medicines upto 15 days post-hospitalization. NHA is consistently receiving feedback on various aspects of PMJAY scheme which includes existing HBP and their rates.Before finalizing the changes in Health Benefit Packages, feedback was also taken from the States and Union Territories. Their feedback was examined by the review committee setup for Ayushman Bharat \u2013 PM Jan Arogya Yojana.All the states & UTs which are implementing AB-PMJAY scheme using insurance model or combination of trust and insurance model will have autonomy on this decision. They can continue implementing Ayushman Bharat Yojana using existing package master till their current contract period ends or can shift to the new version after making suitable amendments in their contract.Cancer Care Revamp in Ayushman Bharat HBP RevisionThe revised oncology packages of Ayushman Bharat Scheme will revamp cancer care for beneficiaries. This will align to reflect current best practices in the country. The revised HBP rates will further augment cancer care in the country with reduction in catastrophic expenses associated with its treatment.After AB-HBP revision, oncology packages have been split to include multiple regimens of surgical and medical oncology complemented by radiotherapy regimens. This will standardize the nomenclature and definitions of packages. NHA in collaboration with World Health Organization (WHO) has started process of aligning HBP with International Classification of Health Interventions (ICHI) and International Classification of Diseases (ICD) coding of the WHO. On completion, India will become first country to use ICHI in HBP list.Ayushman Bharat Scheme \u2013 Addressing Price MovementNHA is also planning to configure the cost of implants / high-end consumables in its IT system separately at the backend. This would be useful in case there is a movement in the price of these significant components of a package cost.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://www.financialexpress.com/lifestyle/health/ayushman-bharat-health-benefit-packages-revised-237-new-packages-added-rates-of-270-rise-details-here/1718735/  at  "}