{"search_data": "GujaratGujarat Doubles Compensation Amount under Farmers Accidental Insurance Scheme Compensation amount for Gujarat Farmers Accidental Insurance Scheme (group insurance) doubled for farmers & their family members, now Rs. 2 lakh for accidental deaths & 1 lakh for disabilityGujarat Farmers Accident Insurance Scheme Modified EligibilityThe state govt. of Gujarat has doubled the compensation amount both in case of accidental deaths and permanent disability. This decision will benefit around 2.49 crore farmers and their family members out of the total 6.25 crore population in the state. The primary requirement to become eligible for compensation is that beneficiary ought to be a farmer and must follow these given conditions:-Farmer must have land records before the start policy (31st March) to prove that he / she is a land owner.The cause of death or disability should be an accident. For this, a post mortem report is mandatory.Incidents of natural and suicidal death are excluded and in such cases, farmers are not entitled for any compensation.Now, cases of accidental deaths and permanent disability caused while working on the field, electrocution, animal bites, accidents involving machines, falling in wells, road accidents while travelling to market yards are also covered under this accidental group insurance scheme.Compensation Amount for Farmers Accident Insurance SchemeThe successor of deceased farmers can avail the following benefits under Farmers Accidental Insurance Scheme:-ParticularBenefit (Rs.)Accidental death / 100% permanent disability2,00,000In case of accidentally loss of two eye or two limbs or Hand and leg2,00,000In case of accidentally loss of one eye and one limb2,00,000In case of accidentally loss of one eye or one limb1,00,000On an average, around 1500 farmers die every year due to the causes covered under this group insurance scheme. But with the number of beneficiaries increasing almost 4 times, the state govt. expects the number of cases to increase as well. Accordingly, govt. will have to pay a higher premium to the insurance companies every year. Till date, the state govt. was paying an annual premium of Rs. 35 crore which is likely to go upto Rs. 80 crore. For more details, visit the official website https://dag.gujarat.gov.in/farmers-accidental-insurance-scheme.htm  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}