{"search_data": "OdishaOdisha Swasthya Mitra Scheme for Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana (BSKY) BeneficiariesOdisha govt. to start Swasthya Mitra Scheme 2019 for Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana (BSKY) beneficiaries, patients to get assistance from Swasthya Mitras to avail free & cashless medical treatment at empanelled private & govt. hospitalsOdisha Swasthya Mitra Scheme for BSKY BeneficiariesTo extend the outreach of BSKY, the state govt. has initiated measures for enrollment of more hospitals under the Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana (BSKY). The State Health Society is holding negotiations with various hospitals. The patients are finding it difficult to access the benefits of Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana (BSKY) in private hospitals, so the state govt. is going to implement Swasthya Mitra Scheme 2019.Swasthya Mitra Service is going to provide assistance to BSKY beneficiaries during their visits to the empanelled hospitals for treatment. This decision is taken at the meeting of State Health Assurance Society. Now each empanelled private hospitals would possess one help desk where Swasthya Mitras will guide and assist BSKY card holders who comes to avail medical facilities.Approx. 70 lakh families of Odisha have been covered under BSKY Scheme who are entitled to get free medical treatment in both private and govt. hospitals. The state govt. has enrolled around 200 private hospitals in Odisha and around 20 super specialty hospitals outside the state. In addition to this, govt. has also decided to enroll more hospitals outside Odisha to provide better healthcare facilities under BSKY to Odia people living in other states.Previously, the state govt. was taking several steps for empanelment of all state and central govt. hospitals outside Odisha under BSKY for free treatment of Odia people. Health dept. will properly implement proposed Swasthya Mitra Scheme to provide quality service to BSKY beneficiaries with a provision of 3rd party audit.Odisha govt. has included over 44 lakh beneficiaries of Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana (RSBY) into Biju Krushak Kalyan Yojana (BKKY). This move was taken after the validity of RSBY Scheme launched by the central govt. expires on 31 December 2018. All the beneficiaries have been advise to exchange their old RSBY cards with the new BSKY ones.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}