{"search_data": "Arunachal PradeshCM Sashakt Kisan Yojana & CM Krishi Samuh Yojana in Arunachal Pradesh Arunachal Pradesh govt. launches CM Sashakt Kisan Yojana & CM Krishi Samuh Yojana in Itanagar for farmers, to raise production and to realize the PM Modi's vision of doubling farmers income by 2022CM Sashakt Kisan Yojana & CM Krishi Samuh Yojana in APThe complete details of the Chief Minister\u2019s Sashakt Kisan Yojana and Chief Minister\u2019s Krishi Samuh Yojana in Arunachal Pradesh are as follows:-CM Sashakt Kisan Yojana in AP \u2013 This scheme will subsume 3 state flagship programmes namely:-CM\u2019s Employment Generation schemeCM\u2019s Agri-Mechanization programmeCM\u2019s Flagship programme on tea and rubberThis scheme is to provide timely assistance to farmers and to ensure better price of crops through Market Intervention scheme. The primary objective is to raise annual income of the farmers.Minister of Agriculture, Dr. Mohesh Chai graced the launch of Chief Ministers Sashakt Kisan Yojana, CMs Krishi Samuh Yojana & Agri Department web Portal at Itanagar today. The government is trying its best to help farmers in their production and income, said the minister. pic.twitter.com/Xmd13WsZrW\u2014 ARUNACHAL IPR (@ArunachalDIPR) October 8, 2018CM Krishi Samuh Yojana in AP \u2013 This scheme aims to empower farmers through cooperative approach, by providing timely supports and marketing interventions of the government for better price realization and doubling farmers income.Arunachal Pradesh produces around 4.5 thousand metric tonnes of fish per year. The requirement of fish in the state is about 15000 Metric Tonnes. The people of Arunachal Pradesh have got a ready market for fish products needed to be exploited by the farmers.In AP, farmers mainly produces rice, maize, coarse cereals, wheat, pulses, sugarcane and ginger crops. The state govt. is consistently working hard to provide appropriate prices of crops to the farmers.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}