{"search_data": "Uttar PradeshApply & Register Online for Samajwadi Smartphone YojanaUPDATE: Last Date Extended to 31st January 2017Steps to Apply/Register Online for Samajwadi Smartphone YojanaSTEP 1: The interested applicants first need to visit the website https://www.samajwadisp.in and then click the register button. STEP 2: The applicants then need to fill their personal and contact information required in the form. Name, Gender, Date of Birth, Name of Father/Mother/Spouse and district etc are to be filled in the first step. STEP 3: The applicants can then review the filled application form and submit. STEP 4: A unique registration number will be allotted to each candidate after submitting the details. STEP 5: The applicants will receive a login password on their mobile number through SMS to complete the second step application procedure. STEP 6: Login using the password received on your mobile number and fill rest of the details such as complete address, category, income details, and academic details. STEP 7: Upload scanned copies of latest passport size photograph and mark sheet of 10th class. STEP 8: If the candidate is found eligible after verification, the smartphone will be delivered to their home in second half of 2017, but only if the SP government comes back in power.In the second step of application, the applicants need to review the submitted information and make the final submission. After the second step is complete, the applicants will not be able to change/edit any of the submitted information.Documents to Upload Photographs: The memory size of photograph should not exceed 50 KB and should be in the JPG/ JPEG/ GIF/ PNG/ TIF/ TIFF format. Marksheet of 10th Class: The scanned copy of 10th pass certificate has to be uploaded. The memory size of the document should not be more than 100 KB.The registration procedure will be completely online, applicants would not be required to visit any government office in any case. The verification of the documents and eligibility of the candidate would be done by the official visit to residence of applicants.READ IN HINDI: Samajwadi Smartphone Yojana in HindiSamajwadi Smartphone Yojana Toll Free HelplineIf the applicants require any information or help regarding the scheme, they can call the toll free helpline at 1800-102-5146 between 10 AM to 6 PM.The last date for online applications for Samajwadi Smartphone Yojana is 31st January 2017.Apply Online Link: https://www.samajwadisp.inSamajwadi Smartphone Yojana website for online application is www.samajwadisp.inImage Credits: www.samajwadisp.in  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}