{"search_data": "Central PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana Mobile App APK Download from Google Play Store [Android Users]PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana Mobile App APK download from google play store, Android users install PM-KISAN app to make farmer registration, aadhar verification, beneficiary status, status of self registered farmers, helpline numberPM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana Mobile App APK DownloadThe Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare under Indian government has been given the responsibility to implement PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana. All the farmers can now download the PM Kisan App from google play store through the link given below:- https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.nic.project.pmkisanThe PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana Mobile App APK has been developed by NIC eGov Mobile Apps. The newly launched PM KISAN App is compatible with all of android devices. Department of Agriculture, Co-operation and Farmers Welfare (DAC&FW) of all the states and union territory governments will implement PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana.The PM Kisan Mobile App was recently updated on 25 February 2020 and is 9 MB in size. The PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana Mobile App is available in the current 1.4 version and requires android version of 4.1 and up for installation & successfully working.PM Kisan Yojana App Features at Google Playstore for AndroidUnion govt. of India is taking several steps to reach eligible beneficiaries under PM-KISAN Scheme. Various public interfaces had already been developed such as pmkisan.gov.in for farmers. The new app will comprise of the following features:-Beneficiary StatusAadhaar VerificationStatus of Self Registered FarmerNew Farmer RegistrationAbout the SchemePM Kisan HelplinePM Kisan app is going to provide option to make self registration, check payment status, correction of name as per aadhar. It is important to note that aadhaar is mandatory requirement for availing PM Kisan benefits. PM-KISAN mobile app has been designed and developed by National Informatics Centre (NIC), Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Government of India.Till date, around 9.74 cr farmers are registered under PM-KISAN Scheme against the target of 14 crore farmers. Out of these, payment has been made to around 8.45 crore farmers so far after data has been verified by the state governments. To broaden the reach of scheme, govt. has launched PM-KISAN App to realize the target of Doubling Farmers Income by 2022. This app will provide end-to-end technology solution for transferring the benefits directly into the accounts of registered farmers.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/economy/agriculture/government-launches-mobile-app-to-broaden-reach-of-pm-kisan/articleshow/74289417.cms  at  "}