{"000-section": {"000-title": "Karnataka Prabuddha Scheme to Help SC / ST Students in Overseas Study"}, "001-section": {"000-title": "Karnataka govt. starts Prabuddha Scheme to bear course fees, travel, accommodation expenses of SC / ST students to enable them in overseas study, Prabhudha Scheme also provides 33% reservation for women & 4% reservation for disabled students"}, "002-section": {"000-title": "Karnataka Prabuddha Scheme for SC / ST Students", "001-normal": "SC / ST communities will now get access to the world\u2019s best universities through the Prabuddha scheme. Department of Social Welfare will administer the implementation of Prabhudha scheme. This scheme would cover tuition fees, travel and accommodation expenses and there is 33% reservation for women & 4% reservation for disabled candidates. Students who wish to avail benefit under the Prabuddha scheme will have to apply online. Applications will be open from December 15 at www.scholarshipwebsiteaddress.gov.in. This scheme is going to cover upto:-", "002-listElement": "- 100% of education expenses for students whose annual family income is less than Rs. 8 lakhs.", "003-listElement": "- 50% of expenses of students whose annual family income is between Rs. 8 lakhs to Rs. 15 lakhs.", "004-listElement": "- 33% of the expenses of students whose annual income exceeds Rs 15 lakhs.", "005-normal": "This scheme is going to cover those students who have been selected in foreign universities to study graduate programmes. This includes engineering, basic sciences, agricultural sciences, social sciences, commerce, economics, psychology, law, fine arts and others. The state govt. will fund at-least 400 students (250 for UG courses & 150 for PG courses) annually at a cost of Rs. 120 crore.", "006-normal": "SC / ST students who have cleared Graduate Record Examinations (GRE), Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT), Scholastic Aptitude / Assessment Test (SAT) and other qualifying examinations are eligible for Prabuddha Scheme."}, "003-section": {"000-title": "Background for Prabhudha Scheme", "001-normal": "Though there was funding for SC/ST students to study abroad since 2001, only 287 students have availed benefits till 2018. This is because the students with 49% to 51% score in qualifying exams like GRE / GMAT / SAT were funded. The state government had spent around Rs. 58 crore under the Prabuddha scheme so far. This is a pioneering move and the Prabhudha scheme will enable students from depressed classes to realize their dream.", "002-normal": "Access to education for SC / ST is limited due to lack of funds and social pressures. With this Prabuddha scheme, govt. wants that more students can avail scheme benefit and contribute towards improving their own lives as well as the communities from where they comes from and of the entire state.", "003-normal": "The scholarship funds would be distributed equally to ensure that the scheme remains fair and transparent to all applicants. A student is eligible to apply for the scheme for 1 time only whether it is for UG, PG or PhD courses. From a single family, maximum 2 students can apply for the scholarship scheme. This scheme will realize the dream of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar of an enlightened India, Prabhuddha Bharat and would enable students to broaden their horizons for the betterment of the society."}}