{"search_data": "Central Operation Greens MIEWS Portal to Monitor Tomato Onion Potato (TOP) Scheme Crop PricesOperation Greens Scheme Market Intelligence & Early Warning System (MIEWS) Portal at miews.nafed-india.com, monitor tomato, onion, potato (TOP) crop pricesOperation Greens Scheme MIEWS Portal for TOP CropsIn order to curb price surge of certain farm produces and to bridge their demand-supply gaps, central govt. started Operation Greens Scheme MIEWS portal. The portal can be directly accessed through the link given below:- https://miews.nafed-india.com/The homepage of Operation Greens MIEWS Portal for Tomato, Onion and Potato crops will appear as shown below:-Operation Greens MIEWS Portal TOP Crops Dashboard The central government has come up with portal to monitor prices, area under cultivation, yields, production, imports and exports. This MIEWS portal also contains other relevant information such as crop calendars, crop agronomy in an easy to use visual format for agro processors, traders and policy makers.Operation Greens MIEWS Portal to Monitor Tomato Onion Potato PricesMarket Intelligence and Early Warning System (MIEWS) is going to monitor prices of tomato, onion and potato which are key ingredients in an Indian kitchen. This Operation Greens Scheme will generate alerts for government intervention. The data from the Agricultural Marketing Information Network (Agmark) which covers 1200 mandis and another 128 mandis under Agriwatch would be used to infer trends. Govt. wants to make balance between interests of farm producers and consumers through MIEWS monitoring system.The Operation Greens MIEWS Portal will generate nationwide database of agri commodities for TOP crops price monitoring. This portal will provide advisories to farmers to avoid cyclical production as well as an early warning in situations of gluts for state governments. MIEWS Portal will also help food processors from ketchup, flake to chips manufacturers to know the seasonal trend, expected prices in the months ahead and states where the crop availability is there.Operation Greens Scheme terms includes that during glut situation, evacuation of surplus production from producing areas to consumption centres would be undertaken. For central govt. the MIEWS system would help in monitoring supply situation for timely market intervention and assist in rapid response in times of glut. This must be done to move produce from glut regions to deficit/consuming regions and providing inputs for export and import decision making.The new Market Intelligence & Early Warning System will give low price and high price alerts along with price forecasts for 3 months forward. There would be forecast of prices and arrivals of tomato, onion and potato crops across the country including interactive charts and comparisons with previous seasons. Sections like prices and arrivals, area, yield and production, crop agronomy and trade profile will be accessible to the public. Furthermore, regular and special market intelligence reports and price forecasts would be accessible only to the policy makers.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://www.business-standard.com/article/markets/to-curb-price-volatility-early-warning-system-developed-for-onion-potato-120022700037_1.html  at  "}