{"search_data": "MaharashtraMaharashtra Coronavirus (COVID-19) Treatment in Mahatma Jyoti Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MJPJAY)Maharashtra govt. includes Coronavirus (COVID-19) treatment under Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MJPJAY), check details at jeevandayee.gov.inMaharashtra COVID-19 Treatment under Mahatma Jyoti Phule Jan Arogya YojanaThe state govt. of Maharashtra has decided to include Coronavirus treatment under Mahatma Jyotiba Phule jan Arogya Yojana. For more details about MJPJAY scheme, visit the official website at jeevandayee.gov.in. All diseases under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana shall be covered from day one. A person suffering from disease prior to the inception of the policy shall also be covered under approved procedures for that disease.Who are Eligible for Free Coronavirus Treatment under MJPJAYAll the families belonging to any of 36 districts in Maharashtra holding white ration card, yellow ration card, antyodaya anna yojana card (AAY), annapurna card, orange ration card as well as government employees are eligible. Moreover, farmers from 14 agriculturally distressed districts of Maharashtra (Amravati, Akola, Aurangabad, Buldhana, Beed, Hingoli, Jalna, Nanded, Latur, Osmanabad, Parbhani, Wardha, Washim and Yavatmal) would also be eligible.Previously, the state govt. of Maharashtra announced that all groceries, milk, vegetables and chemist shops will remain open to avoid panic like situation during COVID-19 lockdown. As another initiative, the state govt. will now provide meals thali at Rs. 5 under Shiv bhojan Yojana for 1 lakh people daily.As on 26 May 2020, the number of coronavirus cases rises to 1,45,000 in India with 4,167 deaths have been reported so far. Around 60,491 patients have recovered in India. Moreover, Maharashtra is the state with most number of COVID-19 cases which are around 50,231 and 1,635 deaths. In order to deal with the number of rising COVID 19 cases, the state govt. of Maharashtra has made its preparations and is ensuring that all people gets appropriate treatment in the hour of need.The Maharashtra govt. will provide free healthcare to 100 percent of people under MJPJAY scheme. Earlier 496 hospitals were covered under the scheme but now over 1000 hospitals have been included under the beneficiary scheme of affordable health services.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://www.aninews.in/news/national/general-news/maharashtra-govt-to-include-treatment-for-coronavirus-under-its-health-care-scheme20200328223413  at  "}