{"search_data": "Andhra Pradesh, CentralAP Yuva Sadhikarika Nirudyoga Bhruthi Scheme \u2013 Unemployment Allowance for YouthsTable of Contents  AP Yuva Sadhikarika Nirudyoga Bhruthi Scheme FeaturesYuva Sadhikarika Nirudyoga Bhruthi Scheme Application ProcedureEligibility CriteriaAP Yuva Sadhikarika Nirudyoga Bhruthi Scheme FeaturesBelow are the highlights and important features of AP Yuva sadhikarika nirudyoga bhruthi scheme:-As per the draft tabled at Legislative assembly on 29 November 2017, state govt. will provide Rs 1500 as monthly pension / stipend.Candidates will have to make registration at employment exchange or online registration (exactly not known).Subsequently, only the jobless candidates will receive the benefits till the time they get a job. In addition to this, one unemployed candidate from a family is permissible.Moreover, govt. will also provide skill training, internship and on the job training to provide employment opportunities to the students.Accordingly, this scheme is going to benefit around 10 lakh unemployed candidates of the state.For this reason, the state govt. will create a database to store the age-wise data of the candidates.Afterwards, a chance would be given to the candidates to provide voluntary service in several community welfare works and other development works in various rural areas.Furthermore, AP govt. will give time to the candidates to complete the formalities at the Employment exchange and get registered under this scheme.To see more details on the AP Nirudyoga Bruthi Scheme 2018-19 Online Registration \u2013 Click HereYuva Sadhikarika Nirudyoga Bhruthi Scheme Application ProcedureThe state govt. does not releases exact enrollment process for this scheme. However as per the previous scheme, candidates may have to make online registrations or also can register through employment exchange. After the completion of the Registration process, candidates should submit the proof of unemployment to avail the benefits.Eligibility CriteriaTo avail the benefits of this scheme, candidates must fulfill the given below eligibility criteria:-Residence \u2013 Only the Andhra Pradesh Residents can apply for this scheme.Minimum Educational Qualification \u2013 All the candidates who have passed the Senior Secondary (12th class) from a recognized Board can apply for this unemployment allowance.Permissible Age Limit \u2013 Only the candidates between age group of 18 to 35 years can apply for this schemeThis Yuva Sadhikarika Nirudyoga Bhruthi Scheme is launched for the welfare of jobless candidates. Furthermore, the state govt. is also focusing to create employment opportunities for unemployed candidates in the state.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}