{"search_data": "Andhra PradeshGrid connected Solar BLDC Pump Sets Scheme in Andhra Pradesh for FarmersAP Grid connected Solar BLDC Pump Sets Scheme \u2013 ObjectivesAP govt. wants to fulfill their following objectives using this scheme:-Reducing the subsidy burden for agricultural connections \u2013 Till date, the state govt. pays subsidy on the purchase of each new agriculture connections. Now this scheme will change the agricultural connections to solar connections will reduce the subsidy burden from the state govt.Cost Effective \u2013 Most of the pump sets used in agriculture are electricity based or diesel based (generators). In India, Villages usually suffers from problem of Electricity while the diesel based generators runs on diesel whose prices are increasing. So, this will be a cost effective method.Daytime Power Supply \u2013 For usage of pumps in irrigation, govt. usually provides electricity at night both in winters and summers. In winters, farmers have to work in adverse conditions due to cold weather. So, Solar Pump Sets will enable the farmers to utilize the generated electricity for irrigation even during daytime.This scheme will divert all the agriculture connections towards the Solar Pump Sets.Implementation of Grid connected Solar BLDC Pumpsets Scheme 2018All the Superintending Engineers will categorize all new connections coming up in the state to solar. This would be done on completion of existing target of 50,000 agriculture connections per year on subsidy. The total number of existing agriculture connections is around 17.20 lakh for which the state govt. has allocated a subsidy amount of 6,030.17 crore in this year.Energy Dept. is going to follow an easy approach for agricultural connections on the basis of targets framed by APERC in their tariff order for FY 2018-19. Now govt\u2019s permission will be required for issuing new agricultural connections. Demand for new agricultural connections is rising in Prakasam, Kurnool & Anantpur districts as these areas are facing drought conditions.Around 1.84 lakh applications for agriculture connections are still pending. Out of this, only 60,000 are paid applications and govt. will soon clear those applications which does not require erection of distribution transformers. Now all the new connections will be placed in the Solar Category and farmers will be encouraged to use solar pump sets. With Solar Pumps, farmers can avail day time power supply with no need to wait for APTransco for new connections.Adani Group has placed the lowest quote of Rs. 3.35 lakh for 3 HP Pumpset while Junna Powers has quoted lowest bid for 4.29 lakhfor 5 HP Pumpset. APEPDCL is making negotiations to lower down the cost further.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}