{"000-section": {"000-title": "PM Kisan Scheme New Rules \u2013 Aadhaar for 1st / 2nd / 3rd Installments & Beneficiary Identification"}, "001-section": {"000-title": "Aadhaar number optional for Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) Scheme 1st installment while aadhar mandatory for PM Kisan Scheme 2nd & 3rd installment, check PM Kisan Scheme New Rules for beneficiary identification process"}, "002-section": {"000-title": "PM Kisan Scheme New Rules \u2013 Check Aadhaar Mandatory or Not for Installments", "001-normal": "The central govt. has made aadhar number of farmers optional for small and marginal farmers to avail 1st installment of Rs. 2,000 under PM-Kisan Scheme guidelines. However for 2nd and 3rd installments, it is compulsory for farmers to show Aadhaar number to verify their identity. In the Interim Budget 2019-20, govt. has announced direct income support of Rs. 6000 per year under PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana.", "002-normal": "PM Kisan Scheme is going to benefit around 12 crore small and marginal farmers having cultivable land holdings upto 2 hectares (5 acres). This PM-KISAN Yojana for farmers would be fully funded from central government and the 1st installment is going to be transferred by the month of March 2019. As per the PM Kisan Scheme New Rules, it is said that \u201cFor transfer of first installment of benefit for the period December 2018-March 2019, Aadhaar number shall be collected wherever available.\u201d", "003-normal": "In case the Aadhaar number is not present, then other alternate documents namely driving licence (DL), voter ID card, NREGA job card and other identification issued by central / state govt. or their authorities needs to be provided to avail PM Kisan Scheme 1st installment. The official statement for the subsequent 2nd and 3rd installments said that \u201cHowever for transfer of subsequent installments, Aadhaar number shall have to be compulsorily captured.\u201d", "004-normal": "The Agriculture Ministry has issued PM Kisan Scheme New Rules to the state govt\u2019s to ensure that there is no duplication of the eligible farmers. All the state govt\u2019s have been directed to prepare a database of the beneficiaries of the small and marginal landholder farmer families in the villages. This data must capture the details of farmers such as their name, gender, caste (whether SC / ST), aadhaar number, bank account number and mobile number of the PM Kisan Scheme beneficiaries."}, "003-section": {"000-title": "PM-KISAN Scheme Guidelines \u2013 Beneficiary Identification", "001-normal": "To calculate the PM Kisan Scheme benefits, the central govt. has already defined a family as a small and marginal landholder family which comprises of 1 husband, wife and minor children upto 18 years of age. The family must collectively own cultivable land upto 2 hectare as per the land records of the concerned states. In order to identify the land ownership, the central govt. said in PM Kisan Scheme New Rules that it will use the existing land ownership system which already prevails in the states and union territories.", "002-normal": "The last date to determine the land ownership as per the land records under the PM-KISAN Scheme will be 1 February 2019. All the changes made in land records after this cutoff date would not be considered for eligibility of the PM Kisan Scheme benefit to the new land holder for next five years. In addition to this, PM Kisan Scheme benefits would remain available on transfer of ownership of cultivable land on account of succession.", "003-normal": "In case that a landholder farmer family (LFF) has land parcels spread across different villages / revenue records, then land would be pooled to determined the PM-KISAN scheme benefit. In various north eastern states, the land ownership rights are community based so govt. would develop an alternate implementation mechanism which would be approved by the committee.", "004-normal": "The state govt. will notify all the district level grievances redressal committees to redress all grievances related to the implementation of PM Kisan Scheme. Furthermore, a project monitoring unit would be setup at the central level while the state will designate a model department for the implementation of PM-KISAN Scheme."}}