{"000-section": {"000-title": "Maharashtra Acharya Balshastri Jambhekar Sanman Yojana \u2013 Senior Journalists Pension Scheme"}, "001-section": {"000-title": "Acharya Balshastri Jambhekar Sanman Yojana 2019 approved by Maharashtra government, all the working journalists, photographers, editors of newspapers, other news broadcast media and freelancers above 60 years to get pension under this pension scheme for senior journalists"}, "002-section": {"000-title": "Maharashtra Acharya Balshastri Jambhekar Sanman Yojana", "001-normal": "Under the Maharashtra Pension Scheme for Senior Journalists, the state govt. is going to provide pension to all experienced media persons. Under Acharya Balshastri Jambhekar Sanman Yojana, the pension amount has not yet been finalized by the state government. All the working journalists, photographers, editors of newspapers, other news broadcast media and freelancers would be eligible.", "002-normal": "Moreover, all the eligible people must have attained the age of 60 years. In addition to this, the eligible people must have completed the 30 years in profession. All the senior journalists have to be accredited for minimum 10 years. These people must have journalism as their only source of income. Except the Employee Provident Fund (EPF), the applicant should not be getting pension from any other source.", "003-normal": "Accordingly, all the accredited journalists with 10 years of experience who practice journalism for livelihood will be eligible for the pension scheme. It is important to note that one of the eligibility criteria makes it mandatory that the applicant should not be a Income Tax payee. The pension would only be given to the beneficiaries only during their lifetime and not to their kin after their death.", "004-normal": "In order to avail the benefits of pension scheme for senior journalists in Maharashtra, all the beneficiaries will have to submit the necessary documents to district information office. All the submitted documents would be scrutinized by the committee of Directorate of Information and Public Relations. This would be solely at the committee\u2019s discretion to decide on granting pension to all the non accredited journalists who fulfills the eligibility criteria."}}