{"search_data": "Andhra PradeshAP YSR Adarsham Scheme \u2013 Vehicles to Unemployed Youth for Self EmploymentAP govt. starts YSR Adarsham Scheme 2019-20 for unemployed youth, vehicles to be given to create self employment opportunities by APMDC, APCSC & APBCL corporations for transportation of sand & other items, jobless youths to earn Rs. 20,000 per monthTable of Contents  AP YSR Adarsham Scheme 2019AP YSR Adarsham Scheme List of BeneficiariesAP YSR Adarsham Scheme State Level CommitteeAP YSR Adarsham Scheme District Level CommitteeAP YSR Adarsham Scheme 2019The important features and highlights of this AP YSR Adarsham Scheme are as follows:-AP govt. will provide vehicles to unemployed youths to create employment opportunities & make them self reliant.This self employment scheme in AP will remove bottlenecks in transportation of sand and other essential commodities.The transportation would be done under various corporations like APMDC, APCSC, APBCL.The customers will get sand and other commodities at affordable rates after induction of upto 6000 vehicles.In AP YSR Adarsham Scheme, APMDC will take the order of sand requirement from the customers. Then these jobless candidate beneficiaries who are given vehicles by the welfare corporation will transport it. Afterwards, the payments would be issued in real time after successful delivery of sand.In the similar manner, APCSC and APBCL will hire these vehicles to transport their commodities. The vehicles under AP YSR Adarsham Scheme will be allotted on the basis of customer\u2019s requirements. The unemployed candidates will get these vehicles under Bank linked programme by all the welfare corporations.AP YSR Adarsham Scheme List of BeneficiariesThe complete AP YSR Adarsham Scheme list of beneficiaries is being prepared and would be released soon. As soon as the YSR Adarsham beneficiary list becomes available for public, we will update it here.All the AP YSR Adarsham Scheme beneficiaries will deliver sands to the customers doorsteps. For this delivery, each unemployed will get monthly payments as per the offered services. This scheme aims to provide each jobless candidate with an assured monthly net income of Rs. 20,000. Moreover at the end of the repayment period of 5 years, the AP YSR Adarsham Scheme beneficiary will become the owner of the vehicle without any encumbrances.AP YSR Adarsham Scheme State Level CommitteeThe complete list of members along with their designations is given below:-Secretary, Social Welfare ChairmanSecretary,Tribal/BC/Kapu/ Minority Welfare Corporations MemberSecretary, Mines MemberSecretary, Civil Supplies MemberCommissioner,Transport Department MemberCommissioner, Commercial Tax MemberSLBC Convener MemberMD, APMDC ConvenerThe following committee members will monitor the AP YSR Adarsham Scheme at State level and District level. The responsibilities of state level committee includes issuance of detailed guidelines for the system proposed, monitor functions of all the associated agencies. Moreover, this committee will fix terms & Conditions for Vehicle OEMs and identify OEMs through reverse tendering process. A process would be devised to ensure minimum payment of GST in transportation.AP YSR Adarsham Scheme District Level CommitteeThe complete list of members along with their designations is given below:-District Collector, ChairmanExecutive Directors of SC / Tribal / BC / Kapu / Minority WelfareCorporations MemberAD, Mines MemberDistrict Tribal Welfare Officer MemberDistrict Transport Commissioner MemberLead District Manager MemberJoint Collector (Sand) ConvenerThese district level committee members will have to perform district-level assessment for transport requirements of the region. They will ensure coordination with banks for loans and support agencies in procurement of vehicles. Their most important task is to identify AP YSR Adarsham Scheme beneficiaries & make timely payments. Moreover, these members will monitor the performance of beneficiaries and will support Welfare corporations in signing an agreement with OEMs & Banks.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://www.tgnns.com/andhra/ysr-adarsham-scheme/2019/10/22/  at  "}