{"search_data": "Central Download cVigil App by EC for Lok Sabha (General) Elections 2019 in IndiacVigil Mobile App by Election Commission (EC) of India available to download at google playstore, make complaints at cVIGIL app for any misconduct in Lok Sabha (General) elections 2019 proceedingsElection Commission cVigil Mobile App DownloadIn order to empower every Indian citizens to remain alert about the proceedings of Lok Sabha elections 2019 in India, EC has launched cVigil Mobile App. All the citizens can now record any activity of MCC violation, incident of intimidation or inducement within minutes of having witnessed them on their smartphones and report it to election authorities. The direct link to download the cVIGIL app is given below:- cVIGIL Mobile App DownloadcVIGIL Mobile App WorkingNow people would not have to go to the office of the returning officer to file complaints. cVIGIL App is a simple, android based mobile app which is user-friendly and easy to operate. Below is the complete procedure to access the app:-First Phase \u2013 Account VerificationSecond Phase \u2013 Photo & VideoThird Phase \u2013 Auto Location CapturedFourth Phase \u2013 Check StatusEC cVigil Mobile App WorkingPeople have to simply click a picture or take a video and briefly describe the activity before uploading it on the cVIGIL mobile application. In case the complainant desires to remain anonymous, then citizen has the option to do so. The District Control Room allocates cVIGIL cases to the flying squads through GIS-based platform. The authorities and officials are duty bound to take action on it within 100 minutes.To facilitate the electors in identification of the candidates, EC of India has adopted another measure and made another provision of printing photograph of candidate on the ballot paper to be displayed on the EVM (Ballot unit) and on Postal Ballot papers. This move will help in reducing any confusion which arises in some cases where candidates with same or similar names contest from the same constituencies.17th Lok Sabha Chunav in India would be held in 7 phases starting from 11 April 2019 and the final phase of general elections would take place on 19 May 2019. The counting of votes and result declaration would be done on 23 May 2019.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}