{"search_data": "Central Check Your Name in PM Jan Arogya Yojana Final Beneficiaries List at mera.pmjay.gov.in Pradhanmantri Jan Arogya Yojana beneficiary list now available at PMJAY official portal at mera.pmjay.gov.in, check your eligibility for Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana under the Ayushman Bharat Initiative \u0939\u093f\u0902\u0926\u0940 \u092e\u0947\u0902 \u092a\u0922\u093c\u0947\u0902For enrollment confirmation, people can also call on the PMJAY helpline number at 14555. All the rural and urban beneficiaries can check whether they are eligible for Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana through this new website or helpline number. This is done to reduce the usage of fake websites which are promising PMJAY enrollment.Table of Contents  PM Jan Arogya Yojana Beneficiaries List1. PM Jan Arogya Yojana Beneficiary List Search by Name2. PMJAY Beneficiaries List Search By Mobile Number / Ration Card Number3. Search By RSBY URN in Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana List of BeneficiariesPM Jan Arogya Yojana Helpline Number (14555)Ayushman Bharat Scheme to Offer Teleconsultation ServicesPM Jan Arogya Yojana Beneficiaries ListBelow is the complete procedure to check name in Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana Final Beneficiary List:-Firstly visit the official \u201cAm I Eligible Portal\u201d at mera.pmjay.gov.inAt the landing page, user needs to enter an active mobile number to get OTP and enter the captcha to find their name in PM Jan Arogya Yojana Final Beneficiary List as shown below:-PM Jan Arogya Yojana Name SearchAfterwards, candidates have to click at the \u201cGenerate OTP\u201d button to receive OTP as text message on entered mobile number. Users can enter this OTP and click at \u201cSubmit\u201d button to get directed to a \u201cName Find Page to enter the details for finding name in PMJAY final beneficiaries list as shown below:-Name Find Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya YojanaHere candidates can adopt the following methods to check whether they are eligible for PM Jan Arogya Yojana \u2013 Search by Name or Search by Ration Card Number or Search by Mobile Number or Search by RSBY URN.1. PM Jan Arogya Yojana Beneficiary List Search by NameAny person whose name appears in the Socio-Economic Caste Census 2011 Data are eligible for Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY). To check name in Final PMJAY Beneficiaries List, candidates can find their details using their SECC Name. In the Name find Page as mentioned above, select the state and then Category as \u201cSearch by Name\u201d to find their name in the beneficiaries list as shown below:-PM Jan Arogya Yojana Beneficiaries List Search By Name Here candidates can enter their Name, Father Name, Mother Name, Age, District, Village, Pin-code and then click at the \u201c\u0916\u094b\u091c\u0947\u0902 / Search\u201d button to find their name in PMJAY beneficiaries List. If the user\u2019s name is showing no results, then the user must contact nearest Ayushman Mitra.2. PMJAY Beneficiaries List Search By Mobile Number / Ration Card NumberAn Additional Data Collection Drive (ADCD) was conducted on 30th April 2018 at various Gram Sabha\u2019s across India. This drive captures active mobile number and ration card number of family of Socio-Economic Caste Census (SECC) database. Only if the individual has got his / her Mobile number or Ration card number captured during this drive, then only it will show results on portal.PMJAY Beneficiaries List Search By Mobile Number Ration Card If any individual got his details captured during ADCD drive and no results are shown, then SECC Name should be used for searching.3. Search By RSBY URN in Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana List of BeneficiariesAll active families which are enrolled under RSBY till 31st March 2018 and does not feature in targeted groups as per SECC 2011 data will be included as well and can identify if they are eligible for PMJAY using RSBY URN:-PMJAY Beneficiary List Search By RSBY URN In case the Search is successful, individual will get an option to receive text message with HHID / RSBY URN for future purpose on their phone by clicking \u201cGET SMS\u201d button and enter mobile number. This mobile number can be different from the mobile number used in the first step for OTP Generation.PM Jan Arogya Yojana Helpline Number (14555)People can also call the PMJAY helpline number 14555 to check if he / she is eligible. Ayushman Mitras will assist patients and coordinate with beneficiaries and these Ayushman Mitras have been appointed in district govt. hospitals where pilot phase has started. They are running Help Desk, checking documents to verify eligibility and enrollment to scheme.All the beneficiaries will be given letters having QR codes which will be scanned and demographic authentication conducted for identification. PMJAY Scheme will target poor, deprived rural families and identified occupational category of urban workers family \u2013 8.03 crore in rural and 2.33 crore in urban areas (as per SECC-2011 database).Ayushman Bharat Scheme to Offer Teleconsultation ServicesAyushman Bharat, which is the world\u2019s biggest public healthcare scheme is now going to offer tele-consultation. This would be done through 1.5 lakh centers which are going to be operationalized by December 2022. The operational Health & Wellness Centers (HWCs) have footfall of almost 1.71 crore patients till date and these centers provides following benefits:-To provide an environment to increase health seeking behaviour of poor people.For making contribution in reducing the out-of-pocket expenditure of common people.Creation of an assured system of continuous care through a well defined referral chainTo increase the trust of people in public healthcare facilities.Over 1.5 crore people have already been screened for hypertension. Out of these, more than 70 lakh people are put on treatment. Similarly, around 1.3 crore people are screened for diabetes out of which over 31 lakh are put on treatment. Indian govt. is also making efforts for expansion of AB-PMJAY with system of incentives in Tier 2 and Tier 3 cities.Central govt. is overhauling the existing health benefits packages and rationalising the cost of the packages. NHA decided that overhauling is necessary to ensure wider private sector participation. This would result in empanelment of more hospitals to improve acces of hospitalization related care. Upgradation of IT system is done to make it even more user-friendly, interoperable and secure.PMJAY aims to provide Universal Health Coverage of Rs. 5 lakh per family per annum to around 10 crore families (50 crore people). Even their is no restriction on caste, age, income. For more details, visit the official website https://mera.pmjay.gov.in/search/  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: mera.pmjay.gov.in  at  "}