{"search_data": "CentralNational E-Mobility Programme \u2013 EESL to Float Tenders for 10,000 New Electric VehiclesNational E-Mobility Programme \u2013 DetailsThe important features and highlights of this new e mobility in India Program are as follows:-This new tender of 10,000 e-vehicles is beneficial for both economy and environment.Accordingly, per kilometer (Km.) cost of an electric car is just Rs. 0.85 under national electric mobility mission plan while this is Rs. 6.5 for a normal petrol or diesel car.Subsequently, motto of national electronic mission is \u201cHealthier World, Healthier Country\u201d.Central govt. is focusing on creating an appropriate charging infrastructure and policy framework. The primary objective Of National E-Mobility Programme is to ensure that more than 30% of vehicles in India are electric vehicles till FY 2030.Moreover, people will not have to take license from any authority to establish charging infrastructure. In addition to this, total tariff would be less than Rs 6 under national electric mobility mission plan.Industries will play an important role as the \u201cfuture of India is electric\u201d. Most countries have already announced dates to phase out their diesel vehicles. For this reason, govt. is inviting industries to come and invest in manufacturing e-vehicles and batteries.EESL installation of 50 lakh LED street lights is a massive achievement for energy efficiency on the lines of Paris Summit 2015. This in an era of clean, green and future-oriented technologies and long term goal of this program is to make a better world.This national electronic mission program will also provide a boost to \u201cMake in India\u201d program. Furthermore, This National Mission for electric mobility will promote the indigenous production of electric vehicles.About Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL)EESL is a joint venture of 4 National Public Sector Enterprises \u2013 NTPC Limited, PFC, REC and Power-grid. EESL is a Super Energy Service Company (ESCO) set up under Ministry of Power, Government of India. EESL\u2019s mission is to streamline energy efficiency on the principle of more efficiency, more innovation. Moreover, EESL will create market access for efficient and future ready trans-formative solutions to benefit every stakeholder.Till now, EESL has distributed around 29 crore LED bulbs and installed 50 lakh LED streetlights across the country. EESL works on self sustainable commercial models and is now exploiting new opportunities in abroad for its diversification. Furthermore, EESL has become operational in United Kingdom, South Asia and South-East Asia. The official website of EESL \u2013 eeslindia.org  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}