{"search_data": "HaryanaHaryana Free Laptop Scheme List of Beneficiaries / Apply Online Form Haryana govt. to start Free Laptop Distribution Scheme 2019, fill apply online form at official website, check name in list of beneficiaries, government school students with more than 90% marks in class 10th state board examination eligible, 500 students to avail benefits of Muft Laptop Yojana \u0939\u093f\u0902\u0926\u0940 \u092e\u0947\u0902 \u092a\u0922\u093c\u0947\u0902Table of Contents  Haryana Free Laptop Scheme List of BeneficiariesHaryana Free Laptop Distribution Scheme Apply Online FormHaryana Muft Laptop Yojana ImplementationHaryana Free Laptop Scheme List of BeneficiariesEducation Department of Haryana will divide students into five categories to prepare Free Laptop Scheme Beneficiary List:-First 100 toppers (without caste, gender or income limit) of 10th state board examinations.Top 100 girls in general category.Top 100 boys from scheduled caste (SC) category.Top 100 girls belonging to scheduled caste (SC) category.Top 100 students from Below Poverty Line (BPL) category.All the govt. schools have received a letter from Haryana govt. informing them about the Free Laptop Scheme. Those students who have passed their board exams this year would be awarded laptops which will help them to prepare themselves for higher education.Haryana Free Laptop Distribution Scheme Apply Online FormJust like laptop distribution schemes of other states like Karnataka, the state govt. of Haryana may invite online application forms for Muft Laptop Yojana. All the interested and eligible meritorious students will then have to apply online. For filling Free Laptop Distribution Scheme online application form, govt. may launch a new dedicated portal. The start and last dates for registration of Free Laptop Scheme in Haryana are still not finalized. As soon as the new guidelines are issued for application / registration, we will update it here.Haryana Muft Laptop Yojana ImplementationEducation Department of Haryana will also prepare list of BPL students. The state govt. will distribute free laptops to students \u2013 both boys and girls \u2013 of economically weaker sections of all communities whose annual family income falls below Rs. 2.5 lakh. The dept. will verify records of these students and will prepare list of beneficiaries after verifying their family income and other admission records by end of this month.Haryana govt. has issued circular to all government schools about the Free Laptop Distribution Scheme. Previously in July, Haryana govt. has issued notification to all districts about a similar scheme. However, that Free Laptop Scheme was not implemented as list was not prepared by a few districts. This Muft Laptop Yojana will encourage students to secure good marks in the board examinations.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/gurgaon/free-laptops-for-govt-school-students-who-scored-90-in-class-10-boards/articleshow/72356630.cms  at  "}