{"search_data": "Central AICTE TULIP Internship 2020 Online Application / Registration Form at internship.aicte-india.orgAICTE TULIP Internship 2020 application / registration form at internship.aicte-india.org, apply online for The Urban Learning Internship Programme, students to get training & work for smart cities under MoHUA, check benefits, features, stipend, duration, certificate & other detailsTable of Contents  AICTE TULIP Internship 2020 Online Registration / Application FormEligibility Criteria for Student TrainingComplete Details of AICTE TULIP Internship 2020Benefits of TrainingDuration and extension of engagementStipend and other AllowancesLogisticsCertificate of InternshipRecent Key Announcements for Indian StudentsFeatures of AICTE TULIP InternshipAICTE TULIP Internship 2020 Online Registration / Application FormCurrently, there are around 80 lakh students who are studying in various engineering colleges in India. Now under AICTE TULIP Internship 2020, these engineering graduates will get internship opportunities in various departments under MoHUA. Here is the complete process of how to apply online for AICTE TULIP Internship 2020:-Firstly visit the official website at https://internship.aicte-india.org/index.phpAt the homepage, click at the \u201cRegister\u201d button to open the AICTE internship register page as shown below:-AICTE Tulip Internship Student RegistrationHere applicants can apply online as ULB, Student, Employer or University. For student registration, click at the \u201cRegister\u201d button under \u2018Student\u2019 section to open the AICTE TULIP Internship 2020 online application form:-AICTE TULIP Internship Online Application FormFill in all the details and then click at the \u201cRegister\u201d button to complete the AICTE TULIP Internship 2020 online application process.Eligibility Criteria for Student Training\u2009 All the applicants must fulfill the following eligibility criteria for student training under AICTE TULIP Internship 2020:-A) AICTE TULIP Internship is open only to Indian citizens.B) Not more than 18 months should have passed from the date of declaration of final year results to the date from which the internship is sought.C) Students must have degree of B. Tech, B planning, B. Arch, BA, BSc, BCom, LLB can register for internships as per their interest.Complete Details of AICTE TULIP Internship 2020TULIP interns would get exposure in a large number of areas such as urban planning, urban design, different branches of engineering, information and technology, mobility, finance, social sector issues and environmental issues. AICTE TULIP Internship 2020 will provide students with insight into policy formulation and implementation and will interact with city officials/ members of the civil society. Students will be oriented towards best practices, knowledge sharing and project implementation on ground. The interns will carry with them a rich experience in urban governance which will help them in their future endeavours.Benefits of TrainingAICTE training to students will provide short term exposure to fresh graduates to enhance their professional development. This is done through experiential learning with ULBs and smart cities. Accordingly, fresh energy and ideas would be harnessed towards ULBs and smart cities endeavours to solve critical challenges.Duration and extension of engagementThe duration of the AICTE TULIP Internship will be a minimum of 8 weeks upto 1 year.Stipend and other AllowancesAmount of stipend/subsistence allowance/expenses would be payable at the discretion of the ULB/ smart city. Moreover, there shall be no liability of providing any employment on the ULB or smart city whatsoever.LogisticsInterns shall bring laptops / mobile internet connectivity / other devices etc. as needed by them. The interns shall normally arrange their own boarding/ lodging/ transport to and from their place of stay to the place of internship. However, the ULB/smart city may reimburse transport/travel expenses incurred by the intern during the course of any assignment. The ULB/smart city can support the interns in any way with resources essential for completion of the assignment as per their discretion.Certificate of InternshipA digitally signed and shareable certificate regarding successful completion of internship shall be issued jointly by MoHUA, State Government, AICTE and the ULB/smart city.Recent Key Announcements for Indian StudentsHere are the key announcements for Indian students which are made recently by the central government:-1) Internships for students & fresh engineers.2) Turning youth from job seekers to job creators.3) Rs. 99,300 crore for Education sector in 2020-21.4) Apprenticeship embedded courses.5) Online education programmes for students.6) Financing Education Sector [FDI, External commercial borrowing].Features of AICTE TULIP InternshipAll the applicants would be able to share credentials, broadcast interests, showcase diverse skills. Moreover, students can choose roles to be offered, decide stipend and logistics and also decide terms of engagement.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/govt-launches-tulip-portal-to-provide-internships-to-graduates-engineers-under-smart-city-projects-details-here/story-MJZw2VlfnTqkcYUMyu508N.html  at  "}