{"search_data": "Central, Odisha Ujjwala Sanitary Napkins Initiative for Women Hygiene & Employment by Central Govt. Central govt. launches Ujjwala Sanitary Napkins Initiative for women hygiene & employment in Odisha, cost of single pack of 8 sanitary pads is Rs. 42 & each unit will employ 5 or 6 ujjwala beneficiariesUjjwala Sanitary Napkins Initiative by Central Govt.The central govt. has started Ujjwala Sanitary Napkin Initiative to promote hygiene and providing job opportunities to women. Each manufacturing unit would be setup at an approx. cost of Rs. 2.94 crore. Each pack will comprise of 8 sanitary pads for which the cost is Rs. 42 per pack. Moreover, each manufacturing unit will employ 5 or 6 Ujjwala beneficiaries. So, this initiative will provide employment to nearly 600 women across all the districts.All the women will first receive training in manufacturing and sale of sanitary napkins. This initiative will provide opportunities to women to earn between Rs. 5,000 and Rs. 15,000 per month. This scheme is going to make women self reliant as the previous measures of distributing money to women through revolving funds is insufficient.Ujjwala Sanitary Napkins Initiative will raise the overall usage of sanitary napkins in women and will promote women hygiene. This initiative will provide an opportunity to all the ujjwala beneficiaries to earn in poor and rural areas. Now such ujjwala scheme beneficiaries can earn in the hours saved from no longer having to cook on firewood.Union Minister @dpradhanbjp launched the \u2018Ujjwala Sanitary Napkin\u2019 initiative in Bhubaneswar. Under this  CSR initiative Oil Marketing Companies to set up manufacturing units of Ujjwala Sanitary Napkins at the Common Service Centres across the state. #EmpoweringWomen pic.twitter.com/bs1ySG9mK0\u2014 Rajesh  Tripathy (@RajeshKTripathy) December 30, 2018At each center, around 5 women would be involved in production and another 5 in marketing. Around 35 lakh women have been benefited by Ujjwala Yojana and now this number could reach upto 45 lakh women. Each facility can produce between 1200 to 2000 pads per days.Sanitary pads would be made from biodegradable substances like virgin wood pulp sheet, non-woven white sheet and a gel sheet. Moreover, sterilisation rooms would be setup at units to ensure that the products are packed in a hygienic manner.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}