{"search_data": "Centralswachhvidyalaya.com \u2013 Swachh Vidyalaya Puraskar 2017-18 Online Registration FormTable of Contents  Online Registrations for Swachh Vidyalaya Puraskar 2017-18Swachh Vidyalaya Android Mobile AppGuidelines of Swachh Vidyalaya Puraskar 2017-18Online Registrations for Swachh Vidyalaya Puraskar 2017-18The ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) is inviting online applications for the Swachh Vidyalaya Puraskar 2017-18. The awards will be given to all winner government and private schools in both rural & urban areas across the country. Interested schools can also apply online through the official website www.swachhvidyalaya.com.Registration for Swachh Vidyalaya Puraskar 2017-18 have started from 1st September 2017 and the last date of registration is 31st October 2017. Interested schools can do online registration easily using the simple steps given belowSTEP 1: Visit on the official website of Swachh Vidyalaya at www.swachhvidyalaya.com or directly click this link. STEP 2: Now click on \u201cApply\u201d tab in the main menu of the website. STEP 3:  Afterwards, click on the Option B : Fill \u201cOnline Survey\u201d link to open the online registration/application form. Alternatively you can also click the following links for online registration for Swachh Vidyalaya Puraskar Server 1 Server 2 STEP 4: A registration form will appear as shown belowSwachh Vidyalaya Puraskar Registration Form at http://swachhvidyalaya.comSTEP 5:  Fill all the information as accurate as possible as required in the registration form. STEP 6: Now click on the \u201cSubmit\u201d button to complete the registration. STEP 7: After clicking the \u201cSubmit\u201d button, a password will be sent on the entered mobile number. STEP 8:  After receiving the password, candidate have to enter the U-DISE Code and password for Login. STEP 9: For completing the online application/registration process, schools have to fill all the 6 sections of the online survey form.The sample format of application / registration form can also be downloaded in the PDF format from the below link: Download Survey FormatSwachh Vidyalaya Android Mobile AppThe schools can also download the Swachh Vidyalaya mobile app from Google Play Store or by giving a missed call on 07097298093 to get links on mobile phone.Swachh Vidyalay Puraskar Mobile AppOnline registrations for Swachh Vidyalaya Puraskar can also be done using the mobile app.Categories of Awards These awards will be categorized at the District, State and National level \u2013 District Level Awards: Open to All Green, Blue and Yellow Rated Schools \u2013 State/UT Level Awards: Open for Green and Blue Rated Schools \u2013 National Level Awards: Open to only Green CategoriesHowever, the registration of schools would be done with the U-DISE code of the school. Suppose If you do not have a UDISE-Code, download the Data Capture Format (DCF) and submit at Block / District / State level office to generate the U-DISE Code. To download the Data Capture Format click on this linkMoreover, All the candidates have to read the instructions very care fully given below before filling the online survey form :- download Instructions for filling the surveyGuidelines of Swachh Vidyalaya Puraskar 2017-18To download the complete guidelines of Swachh Vidyalaya Puraskar click on this link or visit the official website at www.swachhvidyalaya.com  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}