{"search_data": "Central Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana 2019 Complete Details Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana 2019 complete details available at pmfby.gov.in, apply online for PMFBY scheme, calculate premium, track application status & check operational guidelines \u0939\u093f\u0902\u0926\u0940 \u092e\u0947\u0902 \u092a\u0922\u093c\u0947\u0902Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima YojanaPM Fasal Bima Yojana will encourage farmers to adopt innovative and modern agricultural practices. Moreover, PMFBY Scheme will ensure flow of credit to the agriculture sector and will contribute to food security, crop diversification, enhance growth and competitiveness and will also protect farmers from production risks. All the farmers who wish to avail the PMFBY scheme benefits can click the links given below:- Apply Online for PM Fasal Bima Yojana PMFBY Scheme Insurance Premium Calculator Track PMFBY Farmer Application Status Online New Operational Guidelines for Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima YojnaAll the farmers which also includes sharecroppers and tenant farmers who grows the notified crops in notified areas are eligible for coverage. However, farmers must have insurable interest for the notified and insured crops. PMFBY Scheme would be optional for the non-loanee farmers.Premium rates are very low in order to ensure that maximum farmers gets crop insurance cover. The difference between premium and the rate of insurance charges payable by farmers would be shared equally by the central and the state government. PMFBY Scheme will cover oilseeds, food crops like cereals, millets, pulses and annual commercial / horticultural crops.Various stages of crops and risks leading to crop loss including prevented sowing / plantation risk, standing crops, post harvest losses and localized calamities are covered. People can even download PMFBY Android Mobile App to get updated information about PMFBY scheme.PMFBY Scheme removes the premium capping on the premium so that farmers gets full sum insured. Farmers contribution to premium has been reduced significantly. In this scheme, multiple localized risks and post harvest losses taken into account to ensure that no farmer is alone in time of distress. Under this scheme, govt. will make use of simple and smart technology through phones and remote sensing for quick estimation and early settlement of claims.Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana is being implemented through the multi-agency framework selected by the insurance companies under the overall guidance & control of the Department of Agriculture, Cooperation & Farmers Welfare (DAC&FW), Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare (MoA&FW), Government of India (GOI).  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}