{"search_data": "OdishaOdisha Sarba Khyama Yojana 2018 \u2013 BDA to Regularise Unapproved ConstructionsOdisha Sarba Khyama Yojana 2018 Application FormHousing & Urban Development Dept. has issued a notification on \u201cScheme for Regularisation of Unauthorised Constructions-2018\u201d. All the illegal constructions which have not received the necessary approval as per building rules and regulations will be regularized. All the owners who wants to apply for Odisha Sarba Khyama Yojana 2018 for regularization of unauthorized building can now apply offline.For this, the applicants will have to submit a specific application form to their respective development authorities. Along with this form, applicants also needs to furnish supporting documents including building construction plan, fire clearance certificate and submission of a specific fees.All the owners can now submit the applications within 6 months duration (21 June to 19 December 2018). While submitting the application form, all the plots with area greater than 300 sq.m are required to obtain No Objection Certificate (NOC) from neighbours while the plots within 300 sq.m are not required to furnish any NOC. In addition to this, urban development authority will provide certain relaxation for regularization of unauthorised clinical establishments.BDA Sarba Khyama Yojana 2018 \u2013 Amnesty Scheme DetailsHousing and Urban Development Authority has decided to legally reguarize unauthorized colonies instead of demolishing illegal structures on adjacent lands. To regularize their land, residents will have to apply for Amnesty Scheme and development authority will charge amount for this on the basis of sq. ft area.A large section of the state\u2019s population is living in constructions deviated from the original building plan. It is not possible to demolish all such structures as most of these are in dense housing areas. This Sarba Khyama Yojana 2018 is a compromise to deal with all such violations. This scheme will help the development authority to raise the revenue and will be a major solution to the land deals.Odisha govt. has first launched this scheme as per the BDA Planning and Building Standard Regulation, 2001 but was dropped in FY 2008. Now, govt. is going to re-launch this amnesty scheme. Residents have already regularize their constructions where deviation was less than 10% but this limit is now increased to 50% in renewed scheme. Previously, BDA collected compounding fees at Rs. 25 / sq. ft. Govt. will now calculate this fees as per the benchmark price fixed by the government.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}