{"search_data": "Central FSSAI to make Fortification of Packaged Edible Oil Compulsory in IndiaTable of Contents  FSSAI Fortification of Packaged Edible Oil / Fortified FoodFortified Milk Scheme \u2013 Compulsory Fortification of Milk in 2nd PhaseNeed For Vitamin A & D in Packaged Edible Oils & MilkReferencesFSSAI Fortification of Packaged Edible Oil / Fortified FoodTechnology to fortify edible oil is easily available through govt. and other bodies. Moreover, FSSAI also possess a dedicated team at their headquarters for assistance. Several Groups like TATA and Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition (GAIN) has already developed programmes for edible oils fortificationThe sources to obtain Vitamin D from Diet are limited in India. Indian citizens are unable to meet their daily requirement of Vitamin D by dietary diversification. Moreover, Vitamin A deficiency is also prevalent in India. Therefore, fortification of packaged edible oils is necessary as per the Standards of Oil Fortification. 2 Indian States \u2013 Rajasthan and Haryana have already made the fortification of edible oils compulsory.GAIN organization Reports describes the following scenario in India:-80% of the total population consumes less than 50% of Recommended Daily Allowance.50% to 90% population is suffering from Vitamin D Deficiency.61.8% of population has sub-clinical Vitamin A Deficiency.This initiative of fortification of edible oils is already taken up by several other countries. Fortied Packaged Edible Oils are compulsory in 27 countries across the globe including Bolivia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nigeria and Tanzania.Fortified Milk Scheme \u2013 Compulsory Fortification of Milk in 2nd PhaseFSSAI is also planning for mandatory fortification of milk in the second phase. This plan will enable various milk cooperatives like National Dairy Development Board (NDDB), Amul, Mother Dairy etc. to sell fortified packaged milk to consumers. Till date, 14 countries have made milk fortification compulsory including USA, Canada, Brazil, China, Costa Rica, Malaysia, Thailand, Finland, Sweden.Need For Vitamin A & D in Packaged Edible Oils & MilkBoth Vitamin A and D forms an essential part of human body. So, fortification of edible oils and milk will be beneficial for the entire population. Previously, FSSAI has put out standards and guidelines for the Fortification Process and also issued a logo to easily recognize the fortified products.Many renowned companies are eager to adopt and implement food (milk and oil) fortification techniques. Central govt. also provides assistance for fortification through schemes like Mid Day Meal Scheme. FSSAI is also focussing on fortification of other staples such as rice, wheat and salt.References\u2014 See circular and orders on Oil Fortification \u2013 FSSAI Circular\u2019s & Orders \u2014 In case of any query, candidates can see Frequently Asked Questions on Oil Fortification \u2013 FAQ\u2019s \u2014 For more details, visit the official website \u2013 http://ffrc.fssai.gov.in/ffrc/home  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}