{"search_data": "HaryanaHaryana Ration Card Application Form 2020 (APL / BPL) PDF Download in Hindi (Online / Offline) Haryana Ration Card Form Download in Hindi now available online, download Haryana ration card apply form PDF 2019-2020 to include name in ration card list \u0939\u093f\u0902\u0926\u0940 \u092e\u0947\u0902 \u092a\u0922\u093c\u0947\u0902Table of Contents  Haryana Ration Card 2020 Application Form (APL) PDFNFSA / AAY / BPL Ration Card Application Form HaryanaRequirements for New Ration Card (Offline Method)List of Documents Required for New Ration CardHaryana Ration Card 2020Haryana Ration Card 2020 Application Form (APL) PDFIn order to make fresh application for the Ration Card in Haryana, all the candidates can directly download the application form through the link given below:-Download APL Ration Card Form PDF Haryana (in Hindi)Here candidates can click at the \u201cClick here to download document\u201d under \u2018Ration Card Form (APL)\u2019 section.The application form for the Haryana New Ration Card will appear as shown in the figure:-Haryana Ration Card Application Form DownloadAll the candidates can even apply online for Haryana Ration Card at saralharyana.gov.inNFSA / AAY / BPL Ration Card Application Form HaryanaAll the candidates can download the ration card application form for NFSA / AAY / BPL /  CBPL / SBPL / OPH beneficiaries in Haryana through the link given below:-Haryana BPL Ration Card Online Apply 2020 \u2013 Click HereHere candidates can click at the \u201cClick here to download document\u201d under \u2018RATION CARD FORM (NFSA:- AAY, CBPL, SBPL AND OPH)\u2019 section.The Haryana BPL Ration Card online application form 2020 will appear as shown below:-Haryana BPL Ration Card Form PDF DownloadHere candidates can fill in the complete details and submit the completed application form to the concerned authorities.Requirements for New Ration Card (Offline Method)There are following requirements for Ration Card in Haryana:-All the candidates can also obtain the application form for a new Ration card from any circle office / S.D.O office.People must posses passport sized photographs of the head of family attested by a gazetted officer / MLA / MP / Municipal Councillor. He / She must also have specified proof of residence and the surrender / deletion certificate of the previous Ration Card (if any).In case the proof of residence is not available, then the circle FSO / S.I. / M.O. conducts spot inquiries and records the statements of 2 independent witnesses in neighbourhood.The standard prescribed time schedule for the Ration Card preparation is generally 15 days. Although the procedure and time limit can vary from state to state.The state govt. has also made a provision for making amendments to valid Ration Cards.List of Documents Required for New Ration CardThe following documents are necessary to submit the Ration Card application form in Haryana:-List of DocumentsRecent Passport Size PhotographAadhaar CardPrevious Electricity BillsPAN CardGas ConnectionBank PassbookCaste CertificateIncome CertificateHaryana govt. will issue new ration cards for all the citizens whether BPL or APL candidates. It is necessary for getting ration through the distributors at various ration shops. Furthermore, all the citizens can check their name in the Haryana Ration Card New List 2018 at the official website of Food and Civil Supplies Dept. of Haryana.Food and Civil Supplies Department of Haryana has released the Haryana Ration Card List (District Wise). All the citizens who have made fresh registration for the Ration Card can now check their name in the Eligible List of National Food Security Act (NFSA) / APL beneficiaries. Moreover, candidates whose name does not appears in the Ration Card New List 2019-2020 and wants to apply for name inclusion in new Ration card list can apply in the prescribed format.Haryana Ration Card 2020A Ration Card is an essential document issued by the state government for the purchase of essential commodities from fair price shops. There are different ration cards for Above Poverty Line (APL), Below Poverty Line (BPL) and Antyodaya families. It is a very useful document for Indian citizens as it saves money in procurement of essential commodities at a subsidized rate.The ration card in Haryana could also be used as a proof of identification for other documents like Domicile Certificate, for inclusion of your name in the Electoral Rolls etc. In addition to the permanent ration cards, all the states can also issue temporary Ration cards which would remain valid for a specified number of months and are issued for relief purposes.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: haryanafood.gov.in  at  "}