{"000-section": {"000-title": "Kerala Earn While You Learn Scheme \u2013 Govt. to Prepare Students Database for Work As You Study"}, "001-section": {"000-title": "Kerala govt. to start Earn While You Learn Scheme for youths b/w 18-25 years of age, govt. to prepare database of students for work as study, 90 days part time work after college"}, "002-section": {"000-title": "Kerala Earn While You Learn Scheme 2020-21", "001-normal": "Kerala govt. has prepared guidelines for Earn While You Learn Scheme for college going students. All the companies or institutions in the state which provide employment to more than 5 students for more than 6 months will be given \u201cSupporting Youth Employability in the State\u201d certificate. For all government institutions, 15% of salary funds could be used to provide stipend to students.", "002-normal": "Students can be provided jobs at various levels to sustain their livelihood under Earn While You Learn Scheme. They can get jobs at government departments, special purpose vehicles, local bodies, local self-government institutions, private / public enterprises, startups. Each student can work for a maximum of 90 days in a year. Kerala govt. will prepare database of interested students which would be made available with a mobile app.", "003-normal": "Only the students who lies in age group of 18-25 years can work while studying in Earn While You Learn Scheme of Kerala. This scheme will also help the offices to complete their pending works. The state govt. is make changes in procedures to change college timings to 8 a.m to 1.30 p.m. These changes would be implemented from the next year. This will enable students to take up jobs from noon. The state govt. will published order in this regard soon after discussions with teacher\u2019s associations.", "004-normal": "All the students would be allowed to work part time under Earn While You Learn Scheme following a schedule which does not hamper their studies. However it is important to note that the official statement does not specify level of study of students who can opt for this. The Kerala cabinet also decided to allow agencies and establishments to implement this programme. They will earmark 15% of their expenditure on wages to pay honorarium to these students. The Department of Labour and Skills will be the nodal agency for implementing it.", "005-normal": "Source / Reference Link: https://english.mathrubhumi.com/education/news/news-updates/earn-while-you-learn-scheme-govt-to-prepare-database-of-interested-students-1.4591826"}}