{"search_data": "CentralScheme For Loans to Small and Cottage Food Processors in Unorganized SectorsCentral govt. to start Scheme for Loans to Small and Cottage Food Processors & rural women in unorganized sectors, credit to be offered for employment generation & doubling farmer's incomeLoan Scheme 2020 for Small and Cottage Food ProcessorsMinistry of Food Processing Industries will launch Loan Scheme for Small & Cottage Food Processors in Unorganized Sector. India is the largest producer of food in the world. However at this time, India\u2019s food processing industry is at nascent stage. India is able to process only 10% of its total production. Accordingly, there is very high level of wastage which leads to consumer prices shooting up on one hand and farmers not getting their due on the other. Henceforth, Ministry of Food Processing Industries is working on creating infrastructure for food processing and preservation.Loan Scheme 2020 for Small and Cottage Food Processors will ensure that farmers get full value for their crops. To enable farmers to earn higher income through value-addition to their agri produce. Along with this scheme, govt. will offer guidance and subsidies to support farmers and connect them with relevant markets. To create markets, govt. has allowed 100% FDI in multi-brand retail for food which is produced or manufactured in India.In order to attract global food giants to look at sourcing from India, central govt. organized the World Food India 2017. This becomes turning point to attract FDI in the food processing sector and FDI in food processing sector has nearly doubled to 913 million dollars.Small / Cottage Food Processors Loan Scheme BenefitsThe following are the benefits of Loan Scheme for Small & Cottage Food Processors in Unorganized Sectors:-Up-gradation of TechnologyEnhancement of SkillsImprovement in Food Safety Standards of ProductsIntegration with the organized sectorIn another flagship PM Kisan Sampada Yojana, around Rs. 6,000 crore has been sanctioned to create infrastructure to improve agricultural productivity. Moreover, 800 units of infrastructure are being setup over the next 2-3 years to ensure adequate capacity is created for food processing and preservation. Central Govt. has taken other measures to boost food processing sector which includes creation of a corpus of Rs. 2,000 crore under NABARD. This corpus will offer credit through NABARD at cheaper rates to food processing units in designated Food Parks.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/economy/agri-business/govt-to-soon-launch-credit-scheme-for-small-and-cottage-food-processors-harsimrat-kaur-badal/article30941830.ece  at  "}