{"search_data": "Kerala[KSFE] Kerala Government Laptop Scheme 2020 for Students | K-Fone Free Internet for BPL FamiliesKerala Govt. Laptop Scheme 2020, KSFE to fund Kudumbashree to microfinance poor students to purchase laptops of Rs. 15,000 (30 installments), K-Fone free internet for 20 lakh BPL familiesTable of Contents  Kerala Govt. Laptop Scheme 2020 for Poor StudentsKerala Fibre Optic Network (K-Fone) Free Internet SchemeNeed for K-FON Free Internet Connectivity to PoorKerala Govt. Laptop Scheme 2020 for Poor StudentsFinance Minister of Kerala has announced to start new initiatives to promote online education learning. These initiatives are as follows:-KSFE to Fund Kudumbashree to Microfinance Students to Purchase Laptops \u2013 The laptops worth Rs. 15,000 would be purchased from companies empanelled by IT department. Loanees should repay in 30 instalments of Rs 500 per month. After 3 months into the scheme, the members would get Rs 14,250 for the purchase of laptops. Those who repay instalments on time, KSFE would pay their last three installments.KSFE Chit Fund Scheme for Kudumbashree Workers \u2013 Around 40 lakh Kudumbashree workers can join chit fund scheme in KSFE. After 3 months by paying Rs. 500 monthly installment, these workers will be provided laptops. The payment for laptops can be made in installments for 30 months. Members who don\u2019t need laptop can join it too and they will be given money. KSFE would also remit the last 3 installments for those making the payment without default. No security would be needed to be furnished for getting the laptop.Setting of online study centres \u2013 To setup online study classes, KSFE will fund local bodies 75% of expenses and remaining has to be borne by the local bodies itself. These local bodies will purchase items such as TV, local bodies and should submit utility certificate to KSFE. Once local bodies identify a public place for setting up the online study facility and identify beneficiary students, KSFE would issue the cheque in two or three days. Apart from local bodies, other agencies are also free to set up such common facility centres.KSFE branches and local bodies will be implementing the scheme and television will also be installed in public spaces for students to watch and learn. In view of the COVID-19 situation, he added that there\u2019s a need for all students to have laptops. The Kerala government will be launching the scheme that will be implemented by KSFE.Kerala Fibre Optic Network (K-Fone) Free Internet SchemeThe state govt. of Kerala will roll-out Kerala Fibre Optic Network (K-Fone) Scheme by December 2020. In this project, govt. will provide free internet to 20 lakh BPL families with an outlay of Rs. 1500 crore. High speed internet connection facility would be provided to financially weaker families absolutely free of cost. Moreover, those families who does not fall in BPL category will get Net connectivity at affordable rates. K-FON project will give a push to the digitalisation of government services like the e-health programme. IT parks, airports and seaports would also be benefited from the linkage.All the licenced internet service providers (ISPs) and cable TV operators can utilize Fibre Optic Network to provide services to its citizens. In K-Fone project, internet connectivity would be provided to hospitals, schools, government offices and other institutions. K-FON scheme will provide major gains in the Artificial Intelligence, Blockchain, Internet of Things and startup domains sectors. Around 30,000 govt. offices and educational institutions would be linked through the high speed network.Several small scale enterprises which makes use of e-commerce platforms stand to gain from K-FON Scheme. High quality video conferencing and transport management are other significant advantages of this scheme. The K-Fon fibre optic network will also link all mobile towers in the State for better mobile Internet services. The state govt. of Kerala will partner with leading private ISPs for providing seamless bandwidth connectivity.Need for K-FON Free Internet Connectivity to PoorKerala Fibre Optic Network (K-FON) Scheme will prove very beneficial for poor citizens. Lower class people are not able to get internet services as cost of internet pack per month is high for them. Now the state govt. will provide high speed and high quality internet connection free to poor BPL people and affordable prices for others.Chief Minister also mentioned that Kerala is the only state in the country which has declared internet as fundamental right to its citizens. The K-Fone project has been implemented by Kerala State IT Infrastructure Limited and Kerala State Electricity Board. Optical fibre cables were laid across the state using KSEB posts. Kerala Fibre Optic Network Scheme will act as catalyst for the knowledge-based economy envisioned by the state.As the importance and relevance of the internet will grow in the post-COVID-19 scenario, usage of internet in banking and education sectors will greatly increase. K-FON project will provide major support to the government\u2019s efforts to develop Kerala as the world\u2019s leading educational, industrial, and tourism destination.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://www.republicworld.com/india-news/education/kerala-ksfe-to-provide-students-with-laptops-to-bridge-digital-divide.html  at  "}