{"search_data": "CentralUMANG App Download for Android, iPhone & Apply Online for Government ServicesUMANG App Download for Android and IOSFollow the below steps to download the Umang App:-STEP 1:  Go to Google play store on your Android phone & IOS or visit the URL https://play.google.com. STEP 2: Candidate can also visit official website web.umang.gov.in to download the app. STEP 3: Search for UMANG App or click this link STEP 4: Now click on \u201cINSTALL\u201d. STEP 5: The app will be downloaded and installed on the phone. STEP 6: After the installation, you need to register in the Umang app using the mobile Number. However, if the candidate wants to register with the Aadhaar number, then having to use the same mobile number registered on the Aadhar. STEP 7: After verifying the register mobile number, it will ask for the Aadhaar number. The linking Aadhaar with the app makes the work easier for the user because it automatically retrieves the details to the user. STEP 8 The candidate has to set up an MPIN like other apps to access the app next time. STEP 9: This application can also be downloaded by giving a missed call to 97183 \u2013 97183.Moreover, whenever the candidate wants to change their mobile number or phone, he / she can login to the app by using their Aadhaar number which is the more easiest way. Umang App ServicesUses / Services of Umang AppFollowing services / facilities are being provided on the Umang app. The user can access the Umang app in 12 regional languages with the English which is being default one.1. PMKVY Service: Here the user can apply for PMKVY and can also check the application status. 2. Soil Health Card Service: SHC will help to collect the information for the agriculture which will be more helpful for the farmers to improve the yield of production. 3. PMAY Service: Here the user can apply for Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana scheme. 4. Crop Insurance Service: The farmer will get information for their crops regarding the natural disasters, hail, drought, and floods, etc. 5. ORS: Online Registration System (ORS) service providers to connect with various hospitals across the country. 6. MoHUPA Service: The Ministry of Housing and Urban Poverty Alleviation will also provide useful information related urban poverty, housing, and employment programs. 7. AICTE Service: Here user can also search AICTE approved institutes and courses. 8. NCERT Service: Here users can watch the class-wise and subject-wise content provided.In addition, the various services having on the app including Digilocker, Aadhaar, Bharat Bill Payment, Pan Services, Rapid Assessment System etc. As discussed earlier, over 100 services have available currently on the App.However, the government will upload over 1200 services by December 2019 on the Umang App. This app itself will allow the user to access each and every service of the government. Apart from this, the government is also considering to provide to provide customer service every day between 8 AM to 8 PM.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}