{"search_data": "Tamil NaduTamil Nadu Private Job Portal at www.tnprivatejobs.tn.gov.in | Jobseeker Registration / Application FormTamil Nadu Private Job Portal at www.tnprivatejobs.tn.gov.in, fill jobseeker registration / application form, employer apply online, find jobs in private companies of Tamilnadu, check TN job fair (rojgar mela) listTable of Contents  Tamilnadu Private Job Portal at www.tnprivatejobs.tn.gov.inTN Jobseeker Registration / Application FormFind Latest Private Jobs in Tamil NaduTamil Nadu Private Companies Job Fair DetailsTamilnadu Private Job Portal at www.tnprivatejobs.tn.gov.inThrough the new Tamil Nadu Private Job Portal, all those youth who wish to work in private sector can apply online. Youths can register their details such as education qualification, experience among others. Moreover, companies in MSME sector can upload several vacancies through this TN Private Job Portal and can then recruit people.TN Jobseeker Registration / Application FormBelow is the complete process to fill Job Seeker registration / application form at the TN Private Job Portal:-Firstly visit the official Tamil Nadu Private Job Portal at https://www.tnprivatejobs.tn.gov.in/At the homepage, click at the \u201cCandidate Login\u201d tab present in the main menu as shown below:-Tamil Nadu Private Job Portal Apply OnlineUpon clicking the tab, the new Candidate Login page will appear as shown below:-TN Online Private Job Portal Candidate LoginHere applicants can click at the \u201cTo create new account Click Here\u201d link to open the TN Private Jobs Online Registration Form:-Tamilnadu Private Job Portal Online Registration FormHere candidates can enter their name, father\u2019s name, e-mail ID, mobile number, password and click at \u201cRegister\u201d button to complete the online registration process. Then validate the OTP sent on your registered mobile number and click at \u201cSubmit\u201d buttonAfterwards, make login using e-mail ID / mobile number and password to open the tnprivatejobs.tn.gov.in online application form:-tnprivatejobs.tn.gov Online Application FormFill in all the necessary details, upload image, resume (bio-data / CV) and submit the complete the TN private job portal apply online process.This portal only acts as a platform for facilitating employment opportunities in private sector establishments. Vacancies in Government department /public sector undertakings are not notified in this portal. Similar process is required to be followed for Employer Login.Find Latest Private Jobs in Tamil NaduThe new Tamil Nadu Private Job Portal provides candidates with a positive and helpful experience. The job search process at tnprivatejobs.tn.gov.in will enable you to find jobs that will suit your skills and expectations. The direct link to find Latest Private Jobs in Tamil Nadu state is given below:- https://www.tnprivatejobs.tn.gov.in/Home/jobsThe job search page at Tamil Nadu Private Job Portal will appear as shown below:-Find Jobs Tamil Nadu Private Job PortalAt this page, jobseekers can search jobs by location (Chennai, Coimbatore etc), type (regular, trainee), sector (automotive, BFSI, IT-ITES, Logistics, Food processing, Beauty and Wellness, Electronics and Hardware, Instrumentation,  Construction), gender, experience (no. of years), educational qualification etc. Once you narrow down with the right choices, get ready to send your resumes. Forward your updated resume to the optimal employers and gear up for the recruitment.The details like salary range, top companies are also available. Moreover, there are jobs for people with disability. This portal has job opportunities from various employers all around the state as well as your vicinity to match all your criteria. TN Private Jobs Portal has job opportunities covering all sectors from the firms all across the state. Search with your areas of expertise and get roles suiting your qualification.Tamil Nadu Private Companies Job Fair DetailsThe Tamil Nadu Private Job Portal has updated information on job fairs on regular basis in all the districts. It would help connect the right employer to the right employee. Registered candidates can get notified about all these Job fair events and more related details right here. The direct link to check Private Companies Job Fair in Tamil Nadu state is given below:- https://www.tnprivatejobs.tn.gov.in/Home/job_melaAlready, employment camps are being conducted at the district level by the guidance bureau. The website gives details about the different categories of jobs in each sector.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://www.tnprivatejobs.tn.gov.in/  at  "}