{"search_data": "Central Revised Cost for India Post Payments Bank (IPPB) to Boost Banking Services at Post OfficesIn the upcoming few months, IPPB will be spread across the country with at-least one branch in every district and focus on financial services in rural areas.Cabinet Approves Revised Cost for India Post Payments Bank (IPPB)The Union Cabinet has approved the revised project cost for setup of India Post Payments Bank (IPPB). The important features and highlights of this decision are as follows:-IPPB services is available at 650 IPPB branches and 3250 Access Points from 1st September 2018.There would be 1.55 lakh post offices (Access Points) by the end of December 2018.This project is going to generate new employment opportunities for about 3500 skilled banking professionals. IPPB will also provide jobs to other people engaged in spreading financial literacy across the entire country. The main vision and mission of India Post Payment Banks is as follows:-Mission Vision India Post Payment BankThe primary focus is to build the most accessible, affordable, trusted and user friendly bank for the common man.IPPB banks will promote economic growth and financial inclusion. This project will also encourage the vision of central govt. of having a Cashless Economy.IPPB Banks will remove the barriers for persons who does not have access to banks.IT Architecture has been build in a robust manner and compatible to bank grade performance. This platform will also ensure fraud and risk mitigation standards following the lines of banking payments and domain.Boost Banking Services Post OfficesIPPB would also reduce the opportunity cost for under banked population by assisted doorstep banking.IPPB Services \u2013 Boost to Banking Services at Post OfficesIPPB will provide various payments / financial services by the help of its technology enabled solutions. This will be distributed by the Department of Posts (DoP) employees / last mile agents. These employees and agents will transform them from mail deliverer to financial services deliverer.India Post Payments Bank IPPBIPPB will pay incentive / commission to Postal Staff and Gramin Dak Sewaks (agents) directly into their bank accounts. This would enable them to provide IPPB services in order to motivate them to promote IPPB digital services to customers. One part of the commission would be paid by IPPB to Department of Posts.India Post Payment Bank IPPBSource: http://pib.nic.in/PressReleseDetail.aspx?PRID=1544217  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}