{"search_data": "Uttar PradeshSamajwadi Kisan & Sarvhit Bima Yojana \u2013 Care Card, Application & Claim FormsThe scheme would benefit farmers between 18 to 70 years of age who are registered under Khasra and Khatauni. The insurance coverage under the Samajwadi Kisan & Sarvhit Bima Yojana would also be extended to the people whose household income is less than Rs. 75000 per annum.Benefits under Samajwadi Kisan & Sarvhit Bima YojanaFollowing main insurance benefits would be provided to the beneficiaries under the scheme:In case of death or permanent/temporary disability caused in an accident, the head of the household would be given two benefits as following:Individual accidental insurance of up to Rs. 5 Lakh.Medical assistance of up to 2.5 Lakh to the beneficiary and his/her family members for treatment.The victim would be provided cashless treatment facility.The eligible candidates would be provided free \u201cSamajwadi Kisan & Sarvhit Bima Yojana Care Card\u201d.BPL families and the Samajwadi Pension Yojana beneficiaries need not to present any income certificate to avail the scheme benefits.The insurance cover benefits under the scheme would be provided even in the case of snake biting or any harm by wild animals.In case of mutilation of any part, Up to Rs. 1 Lakh would be provided for artificial part.The scheme would be applicable even in the case of the accident outside the state.Medical assistance of up to Rs. 25000 for first aid in any nearest medical center would be given to beneficiary in case of accident.Samajwadi Kisan & Sarvhit Bima Yojana Care CardThe state government, under the scheme would issue care cards to all the eligible candidates which can be used to avail scheme benefits. However, even in case of not having the care card, the scheme benefits would be provided to the beneficiary.Samajwadi Kisan Evam Sarvhit Bima Yojana was first given its approval by the state cabinet for implementation from 1st April 2016.The state government has appointed the renowned bollywood actor Nawazuddin Siddiqui as the brand ambassador for the scheme.\u0939\u093f\u0902\u0926\u0940 \u092e\u0947\u0902 \u092a\u095d\u0947\u0902: Samajwadi Kisan Bima Yojana in HindiHow to Claim under Samajwadi Kisan Bima YojanaTo avail the scheme benefits, the beneficiary needs to submit the scheme claim form along with the following documents: 1. Age certificate of the household head. 2. Certificate copy of the Khasra Khatauni. 3. Income certificate (Not required from BPL households and Samajwadi Pension Yojana Beneficiaries) 4. family distribution letter 5. Copy of FIR 6. Death certificate 7. Certificate from the head doctor in case of disability 8. Heir certificate 9. Treatment related bills from the hospital/medical center 10. Saving bank account number, bank name and IFSC code of the beneficiary or the nominee.Helpline for the schemeThe state government has also launched a helpline number 1502 which would be toll free and available 24\u00d77. The interested candidates or the beneficiaries can call 1502 helpline to get any information about the Samajwadi Kisan Evam Sarvhit Bima Yojana and its benefits.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}