{"search_data": "AssamChief Minister Samagra Gramya Unnayan Yojana (CMSGUY) Village Development SchemeRural income generationConvergence of departmental schemesImproving irrigation facilitiesSkill developmentSpecial attention to 6th scheduled councils, PRI\u2019s, ULB\u2019sSpecial emphasis on Sericulture, Bamboo cane products, high-yield variety seeds, spices, vegetable and organic farming.Village base eco and rural tourismAs per the assessment survey taken between 2002-03 and 2012-13, the growth in the income of the farmers was only 0.88% per year in Assam against a national average of 5.2%. Hence the Assam government has decided to launch the CMSGUY for holistic development of the villages within a short span of 5 years by making huge investments in rural areas across the state.Implementation of CMSGUYThe scheme would be implemented in a mission mode through the next five years. The state government would constitute five teams in each block for the implementation of different mission under the scheme. The teams would be responsible for creating development plans and implementing them into the villages that comes under their block.Each village under the scheme would get its own village knowledge center and a playground. The scheme would spend about Rs. 1.20 Crore on each village for its overall development. Villages would be the center at the development under the CMSGUY scheme. The key highlights of the scheme implementation would be as following.Conduct baseline survey of all villages.Identify core strength of each village and create a development plan.Training of Panchayat representatives and officials.Take up pilot activities in the villages.Rs. 500 Crore budget was provided in Budget 2016-17 while Rs. 1000 Crore is proposed in the supplementary demand.Key Highlights of Chief Minister Samagra Gramya Unnayan Yojana (CMSGUY)Double the farm income in five years by 2021-22.Saturation model: Cover each of 25,425 villages in the state.Focus on core strength of each village.Average investment of Rs. 1.20 Crore per village.Total investment of Rs. 30,000 Crore.Build community assets and individual capabilities."}