{"search_data": "Himachal PradeshHimachal Pradesh Mukhyamantri 1 Bigha Scheme 2020 to Empower Rural Women (MGNREGA)Himachal Pradesh Mukhyamantri 1 Bigha Scheme 2020 to empower rural women, training to women for employment under MGNREGA scheme, Rs. 1 lakh cash incentive, grants for vermi-compost, irrigation in MGNREGSTable of Contents  HP Mukhyamantri 1 Bigha Scheme 2020 \u2013 Complete DetailsTraining to Women in HP Mukhya Mantri 1 Bigha SchemeCash Incentive of Rs. 1 Lakh to Each WomenGrants for Vermicompost, Irrigation to Rural WomenHP Mukhya Mantri 1 Bigha Scheme FAQsHP Mukhyamantri 1 Bigha Scheme 2020 \u2013 Complete DetailsThe state govt. of Himachal Pradesh will link the new HP Mukhyamantri 1 Bigha Scheme with MGNREGA Scheme.Training to Women in HP Mukhya Mantri 1 Bigha SchemeIn this scheme, each women beneficiary would be entitled to get employment under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) Scheme. For this purpose, the state govt. will provide training to rural women under the HP Mukhya Mantri 1 Bigha Scheme 2020. Moreover, grants would be provided to level hill land, channelize water, setup a vermi-compost pit and purchase of saplings and seeds.The state govt. of Himachal Pradesh will focus on multiple cropping to maximize profits, minimize risk and stabilize incomes. As no one wants to do labour-intensive work, so initially 1.5 lakh women from each household have agreed to get associated with Mukhyamantri 1 Bigha Scheme. This scheme will not only ensure nutritional security for the family but will also generate additional income.Cash Incentive of Rs. 1 Lakh to Each WomenAs per an initial estimate, each woman beneficiary is expected to get an annual cash incentive of Rs. 1 lakh under MGNREGA Scheme (MGNREGS). It includes a per day wage of Rs. 198. After every 15 days, the wages of women would be transferred to their Aadhar linked bank accounts.The HP govt\u2019s task force i.e the Gram Rozgar Sewaks will monitor the HP Mukhyamantri 1 Bigha Scheme beneficiaries. Each beneficiary is entitled to claim reimbursements for purchased seasonal vegetable seeds and fruit tree saplings as advised by the agriculture and horticulture departments.Grants for Vermicompost, Irrigation to Rural WomenTo develop land and setup irrigation channels, beneficiaries will get grant upto Rs. 40,000. For setting a concreate vermicompost pit, women will get Rs. 10,000 under HP Mukhyamantri 1 Bigha Scheme 2020. The money would be provided under the MGNREGA Scheme. In order to battle the COVID-19 pandemic, govt. is focusing on revival of economic activity in rural areas as HP state is predominantly governed by agriculture activities.HP Mukhya Mantri 1 Bigha Scheme 2020 will not only help enhance women skills but also cushion the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. This scheme will turn out to be a win-win situation for rural women empowerment. On the one hand, this scheme will help in enhancing incomes and skills and on the other hand, women will be able to develop their assets permanently.As per the Economic Survey 2019-20, 181.74 lakh days were generated under the MGNREGS by providing employment to 447,773 households in the state. The Himachal Pradesh state has a network of 2,191 bank branches and more than 77% branches are in rural areas.HP Mukhya Mantri 1 Bigha Scheme FAQsHere are the most frequently asked questions for HP Mukhya Mantri 1 Bigha Scheme 2020:-1) What is Mukhyamantri 1 Bigha Scheme? The state govt. of Himachal Pradesh has launched Mukhyamantri 1 Bigha Scheme 2020 to empower rural women. In this scheme, govt. will provide training to women for employment under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme. The HP state govt. will provide Rs. 1 lakh cash incentive along with grants for vermi-compost and irrigation under MGNREGS.2) Who will Launch this Scheme and When? Chief Minister of Himachal Pradesh Jai Ram Thakur has launched this Mukhyamantri 1 Bigha Scheme on 21 May 2020.3) How can we Fill Apply Online Form for HP Mukhya Mantri 1 Bigha Yojana? As the scheme is launched on 21 May 2020, the complete details of the Mukhya Mantri 1 Bigha Yojana are not yet released. It is not known till date that how one can enroll for this employment scheme under MGNREGA. The official portal and the process of how to fill apply online form is not known yet. As soon as the official notification / guidelines are released, we will update it here.4) List of Beneficiaries for HP Mukhyamantri 1 Bigha Scheme? Around 5,000 self-help groups (SHGs) will reach out to 80% rural households that possess some land. These SHGs are expected to prepare the list of eligible beneficiaries. The HP govt\u2019s task force i.e the Gram Rozgar Sewaks will monitor the HP Mukhyamantri 1 Bigha Scheme beneficiaries.5) For what Purpose, Grants would be provided? Grants would be provided to level hill land, channelize water, setup a vermi-compost pit and purchase of saplings and seeds.6) What is the Grant Amount for Women for Land / Irrigation? In order to develop land and setup irrigation channels, women beneficiaries will get grant upto Rs. 40,000.7) What is the Grant Amount for Women for Concrete Vermicompost Pit? Moreover to setup a concrete vermi-compost pit, women will get Rs. 10,000 grant. This amount will be given under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Scheme (MGNREGS).  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-to-empower-rural-women-through-mukhya-mantri-1-bigha-scheme/story-aV4sIvAHdEb0pHxQcz7J6M.html  at  "}