{"search_data": "OdishaOdisha Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana (BSKY) 2019 \u2013 Now in All Govt. Medical CollegesOdisha govt. extended Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana 2019 to give health care of Rs. 5 lakh to all without restriction of income, age, document, BSKY facility to be applicable in all govt. medical colleges & hospitals in addition to any government health institution from district to sub-center levelOdisha BSKY Scheme 2019 Extended to all Govt. Medical CollegesUnder Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana 2019, govt. provides cashless treatment upto Rs. 5 lakh for secondary and tertiary hospitalization. This cashless healthcare facility is being provided to all the people and even there is no requirement of any income, residence or any document.Under BSKY Scheme 2019, govt. will provide free services which would cover all procedures in all government health facilities. This includes in-patient beds, surgeries, operation theatre (OT) facility, ICU facility without any charge. To successfully implement this decision of inclusion of govt. medical colleges, the state govt. has made an additional provision of over Rs. 100 crore from the state budget 2019-2020.BSKY women beneficiaries can avail health cover upto Rs. 7 lakh. Odisha govt. has launched this health insurance scheme to benefit around 3.5 crore people at any govt. or private empanelled hospital. Now in all empanelled private hospitals, around 70 lakh families would continue to avail cashless treatment.Happy to share that free health services under #BSKY will now be available in all Government Medical College Hospitals across #Odisha from Feb 2019. Patients, irrespective of APL or BPL category can now also avail free blood bank facility free of cost. @HFWOdisha pic.twitter.com/kVmdeFYjw3\u2014 Naveen Patnaik (@Naveen_Odisha) January 18, 2019By taking this decision to include all govt. medical colleges in BSKY Scheme 2019, govt. creates another milestone towards achieving the vision of Universal Health Coverage (UHC) for the people.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}