{"search_data": "GujaratGujarat Saraswati Sadhana Yojana \u2013 Free Bicycle Scheme for SC Girls in Std. 9Gujarat govt. launch Saraswati Sadhana Yojana 2019 (Free Bicycle Scheme), Class 9th girls from SC category to get free bicycles in Sarasvati Sadhana SchemeTable of Contents  Gujarat Saraswati Sadhana Yojana 2019Sarasvati Sadhana Yojana 2019 BeneficiariesGujarat SC Girls Free Bicycle Scheme 2019Gujarat Saraswati Sadhana Yojana 2019Secondary education (10th class) is a crucial stage in education as it lays the foundation of students towards higher education and even towards working. As per the survey reports, most of the girls belonging to deprived sections of the society left education due to lack of proper facilities. So, in order to encourage girls from SC community to pursue further studies, the state govt. of Gujarat has launched Saraswati Sadhana Yojana 2019 to provide free bicycle to SC girls studying in Class 9th in govt. / govt. aided schools.Sarasvati Sadhana Yojana 2019 BeneficiariesOnly those girls who are studying in 9th standard are eligible. The annual income of the parents of the SC girl from all sources must not exceed Rs. 1,20,000 for rural areas and Rs. 1,50,000 for urban areas to become eligible for Sarasvati Sadhana Yojana in Gujarat. It is important to note that only those girls who fulfills both these conditions would get free bicycles.Gujarat Sarasvati Sadhana Yojana aims to improve the gross enrollment ratio for class IX. This scheme would promote girls education as the problem of lack of access, lower participation and bad quality facilities would be tackled through this Saraswati Sadhana Scheme. The status of girls education and thus the overall quality of girls education would be improved.The scheme details are available at the official website of Department of Social Justice & Empowerment and can be accessed through the link given below:- https://sje.gujarat.gov.in/dscw/showpage.aspx?contentid=1762&lang=englishGujarat SC Girls Free Bicycle Scheme 2019The evaluation studies of the Free Bicycle Scheme for SC girls in Gujarat said that this scheme is a boon for the girl students. Saraswati Sadhana Yojana in Gujarat would increase enrollment and attendance of girls in schools as these girls would now ride these cycles to reach schools.Sarasvati Sadhana Scheme would have impact both in terms of solving / reducing the security related concerns of the girls and their parents which would raise the enrollment and attendance of girls in Class 9th.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: sje.gujarat.gov.in  at  "}