{"search_data": "Andhra PradeshAP Jagan Anna Vidya Deevena Scheme (YSR Fee Reimbursement) Apply Online Form 2020AP govt. Jagan Anna Vidya Deevena Scheme 2020 to provide 100% fee reimbursement for SC, ST, OBC, minority, Kapus, EWS, disabled, download AP Jagananna Vidya Deevena Scheme apply online form format at navasakam.ap.gov.inTable of Contents  AP Jagananna Vidya Deevena Scheme 2020AP Jagan Anna Vidya Deevena Scheme Apply Online FormAP Jagan Anna Vasati Deevena SchemeAP YSR Kapu Nestam SchemeAP Vahana Mitra Scheme Phase 2AP Jagananna Vidya Deevena Scheme 2020The important features and highlights of 100% Fee Reimbursement Scheme are as follows:-Under Jagan Anna Vidya Deevena Scheme, the fee of students belonging to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, backward classes, minorities, Kapus, economically backward classes and differently-abled categories will be reimbursed.Any student whose annual family income is less than Rs. 2.5 lakh are eligible under Jagananna Vidya Deevena Scheme.Those with 10 acres of wetland and 25 acres of dry land are also eligible for the benefit.There is no income limit for students hailing from families of sanitation works and those who are professionally dependent on taxi, auto, and tractor. However, The income taxpayers will not be eligible.Initially, the full fee reimbursement will be extended to students pursuing B Tech, B Pharmacy, M Tech, M Pharmacy, MBA, MCA, BEd and such courses.AP Jagan Anna Vidya Deevena Scheme Apply Online FormAll the interested people can download AP Jagan Anna Vidya Deevena Scheme online application form through the link given below:- http://navasakam.ap.gov.in/downloads/fee_reimbursement.pdfThe AP Jagananna Vidya Deevena Scheme apply online form will appear as shown below:-AP Jagananna Vidya Deevena Scheme Apply Online Form DownloadAP Jagan Anna Vasati Deevena SchemeAP govt. also approves Jagananna Vasati Deevena Scheme to help students with their hostel and mess charges in the institutions. Under this scheme, ITI students will receive Rs 10,000, polytechnic students Rs 15,000, and degree students Rs 20,000 every year as their mess charges. The amount would be paid in two installments, one in December and the other in July, and will be credited to the bank account of student\u2019s mother.The cabinet also approved allocation of Rs 2,300 crore every year for Jagananna Vasathi Deevana Scheme. The minister said the allocation for this scheme was enhanced by Rs 1,500 crore compared to the allocation by the previous government. A total of 11,44,490 students are expected to benefit from both the Jagananna Vidya Deevena Scheme and Jagan Anna Vasati Deevena Scheme. YSRCP government has increased the allocation for fee reimbursement scheme by Rs. 1,800 crore as compared to annual allocation made by the previous TDP government.AP YSR Kapu Nestam SchemeAP cabinet also approves YSR Kapu Nestam Scheme for women from Kapu, Balija, Telaga, Ontari communities. Under this scheme, women b/w age of 45 to 60 years will be given an assistance of Rs. 15,000 per annum. Each beneficiary will get Rs 75,000 in five years to help them improve their living conditions. The cabinet approved implementation of YSR Kapu Nestham scheme with an allocation of Rs 1,101 crore and Rs 900 crore every year thereafter.AP Vahana Mitra Scheme Phase 2AP govt. has also allocated Rs. 63 crore for implementation of Vahana Mitra Scheme Phase 2 for auto, taxi, maxi cab owners cum drivers. Under this scheme, each driver / owner will get Rs. 10,000 per annum for annual maintenance of their vehicles. AP Vahana Mitra Scheme was launched in September 2019 and over 1.7 lakh applications were approved and sanctioned for financial aid.Its guidelines were relaxed in October 2019 to enable more owners cum drivers to avail scheme benefits. In 2nd phase, a total number of 65,054 people applied for benefits and 62,637 applications were approved. The state govt. has released amount to benefit new beneficiaries. A total amount of Rs. 236 crore is distributed to beneficiaries in these two phases of Vahana Mitra Scheme. The registration of beneficiaries will continue next year.Finally, Navaratanalu\u2019s Pedhalandariki Illu (Housing for all poor) scheme also got approved and Rs. 25 lakh houses to be constructed.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://www.thehansindia.com/andhra-pradesh/cm-ys-jagan-to-launch-jagananna-vidya-deevena-scheme-today-12-lakh-studnts-to-benefit-619605  at  "}