{"search_data": "Central India Electronics Manufacturing Schemes (PLI / SPECS / EMC 2.0) Online Application FormIndia Electronics Manufacturing Schemes (PLI, SPECS, Modified EMC 2.0) application / registration form, apply online for incentives on making mobile phones in IndiaTable of Contents  Govt. Schemes to Boost Electronics Manufacturing in IndiaProduction Linked Incentive Scheme (PLI) for Large Scale Electronics ManufacturingPLI Scheme Online Registration FormScheme for Promotion of Manufacturing of Electronic Components and Semiconductors (SPECS)SPECS Scheme Online Application FormModified Electronics Manufacturing Clusters (EMC 2.0) SchemeHow to Apply Online for Modified EMC 2.0 SchemeObjectives of 3 India Electronics Manufacturing SchemesGovt. Schemes to Boost Electronics Manufacturing in IndiaWe will discuss all the 3 schemes namely PLI, SPECS, EMC 2.0 in a serial wise manner and describe their online application process.Production Linked Incentive Scheme (PLI) for Large Scale Electronics ManufacturingThis PLI scheme offers a production linked incentive to boost domestic manufacturing. PLI scheme will attract large investments in mobile phone manufacturing and specified electronic components. This includes Assembly, Testing, Marking and Packaging (ATMP) units. The scheme shall extend an incentive of 4% to 6% on incremental sales (over base year) of goods manufactured in India and covered under target segments, to eligible companies, for a period of 5 years subsequent to the base year as defined.PLI Scheme Online Registration FormThe Production Linked Incentive Scheme (PLI) for Large Scale Electronics Manufacturing is open for applications for a period of 4 months initially (until 31 July 2020) which may be extended. Companies can apply for this scheme by submitting their application through the new PLI portal which can be accessed using the link below:-https://pli.ifciltd.com/At the homepage, click at the \u201cRegister\u201d button or directly click this linkThe Production Linked Incentive (PLI) Scheme online registration form for large scale electronics manufacturing will appear as shown below:-Production Linked Incentive Scheme Online Registration FormHere applicants can enter organization details (Name of organisation, PAN, CIN, GSTN, address), authorized person details and click at the \u201cRegister\u201d button to complete apply online process.For PLI Scheme guidelines, notification, presentation and other details, click the link https://meity.gov.in/esdm/pliProject Management Agency (PMA) will be the Nodal Agency to implement PLI Scheme. This scheme amounts to Rs. 40,995 crores for increasing their production capacity in the country. Support under the PLI Scheme shall be provided for a period of five years subsequent to the base year and the incentives will be applicable starting 1 August 2020.Scheme for Promotion of Manufacturing of Electronic Components and Semiconductors (SPECS)SPECS scheme will provide financial incentive of 25% amounting to Rs. 3,285 crore on capital expenditure for the identified list of electronic goods. These includes downstream value chain of electronic products i.e., electronic components, semiconductor/ display fabrication units, ATMP units, specialized sub-assemblies and capital goods for manufacture of aforesaid goods as all of these involve high value added manufacturing. The capital expenditure will be total of expenditure in plant, machinery, equipment, associated utilities and technology, including for Research & Development (R&D).SPECS Scheme Online Application FormSPECS Scheme online application can be made by any entity registered in India. SPECS scheme will be applicable to investments in new units and expansion of capacity/ modernization and diversification of existing units. For this, applicants needs to fill SPECS online application form using the link:-https://specs.ifciltd.com/Upon clicking this link, click at the \u201cRegister\u201d button or directly click this link.The SPECS Scheme online application form will appear as shown below:-SPECS Scheme Online Application Form Electronics ManufacturingHere applicants are required to enter company details such as name of company, PAN, GSTIN, type of legal entity, registered office address and authorized person details.Finally, click at the \u201cRegister\u201d button to complete the SPECS online registration process.For more details on SPECS Scheme like notification, guidelines, presentation, click link https://meity.gov.in/esdm/SPECSProject Management Agency (PMA) will be the nodal agency to implement Scheme for Promotion of Manufacturing of Electronic Components and Semiconductors. PMA will be responsible for providing secretarial, managerial and implementation support and carrying out other responsibilities as assigned by MeitY from time to time.SPECS Scheme is open for applications initially for 3 years from the date of its notification. Incentives under SPECS Scheme will be applicable from the date of acknowledgment of the application. The incentives will be available for investment made within 5 years from the date of acknowledgement of application. The central government has set a minimum threshold between Rs. 5 crore to Rs. 1,000 crore for the companies under SPECS scheme.Modified Electronics Manufacturing Clusters (EMC 2.0) SchemeModified EMC 2.0 scheme gives an incentive of 50% of the project cost which amounts to Rs. 3,762 crores to the companies. With this scheme, the government aims to lure big companies along with their ancillaries to set up base in India. In addition to the incentive, the central government will give minimum land area of 200 acres (100 acres for North East and hill states) for large manufacturing clusters. EMC 2.0 Scheme will fortify the linkage between domestic and international market by strengthening supply chain responsiveness, consolidation of suppliers, decreased time-to-market, lower logistics costs among others.How to Apply Online for Modified EMC 2.0 SchemeModified EMC 2.0 Scheme will provide financial assistance for setting up of both EMC projects and Common Facility Centres (CFCs) across the country. The Scheme is open for receipt of applications for a period of 3 years from the date of notification. Further period of 5 years is available for disbursement of funds to the approved projects. To apply online for Modified EMC 2.0 Scheme, click the link:-https://emc20.stpi.in/At homepage, click at the \u201cLogin\u201d button or directly click this linkIn the newly opened login window, click at the \u201cNew User\u201d button to open the Modified EMC 2.0 apply online form:-Modified EMC 2.0 Apply Online FormHere applicants can enter details like PIA details, registered office, contact person of PIA and click at the \u201cSubmit\u201d button to complete the Modified EMC 2.0 apply online process.Modified EMC 2.0 Scheme like notification, guidelines, presentation, click https://meity.gov.in/esdm/emc2.0An application shall be made by Project Implementing Agency (PIA) which can be State Government or State Implementing Agency (SIA) or Central Public Sector Unit (CPSU) or State Public Sector Unit (SPSU) or Industrial Corridor Development Corporation (ICDC) such as DMICDC among others. All the applications received under the EMC 2.0 Scheme through Project Management Agency (PMA) will be considered by Project Review Committee (PRC) for giving its recommendations to the PMA for according approval/ rejection of the projects.Objectives of 3 India Electronics Manufacturing SchemesWith these 3 schemes namely PLI, SPECS and Modified EMC 2.0, the central govt. aims to achieve 5 objectives:-A) Expansion of manufacturing base on the lines of Korea, China and Taiwan.B) Developing a trusted value chain.C) 20%-30% higher value addition.D) Increase foreign exchange savings.E) Generation of upto 10 lakh jobs in India.The respective portals of 3 India Electronics Manufacturing Scheme to receive applications have been made live by the IFCI which is a public-sector NBFC. As per the data from MeitY, production of mobile handsets in 2018-19 has reached 29 crore units worth Rs. 1.70 Lakh crore from just 6 crore units worth Rs. 19,000 crore in 2014. While the exports of electronics has increased from Rs. 38,263 crore in 2014-15 to Rs. 61,908 crore in 2018-19.India\u2019s share in global electronics production has reached 3% in 2018 from from just 1.3% in 2012. The schemes are expected to increase production of mobile phones and their parts to around Rs.10,00,000 crore by 2025 and generate around 5 lakh direct and 15 lakh indirect jobs.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/tech/hardware/govt-starts-inviting-application-for-rs-50000-cr-electronic-incentive-schemes/articleshow/76153644.cms  at  "}