{"search_data": "Madhya PradeshMP Ki Apni Bus \u2013 Sutra Sewa | Urban Transport Scheme in Madhya PradeshMP Ki Apni Bus \u2013 Sutra Sewa Scheme 2018The important features and highlights of this MP Ki Apni Bus \u2013 Sutra Sewa Scheme are as follows:-In the first phase, the state govt. will introduce this Sutra Seva \u2013 MP Ki Apni Bus Scheme in 20 selected cities.Govt. will run 127 buses in 16 municipal corporations and 4 municipalities \u2013 Gwalior, Morena, Ujjain, Devas, Bhopal, Indore, Jabalpur, Rewa, Ratlam, Burahanpur, Singrauli, Katni, Chhindwada, Khandwa and Satna (municipal corporations) and Bhind, Shivpuri, Guna and Vidisha (municipalities).Urban Development & Housing Department will provide this economical bus service inside and outside the cities.This will be done under the \u201cAtal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) Scheme\u201d through Private Partnership.To provide safe and better transport services, govt. will equip these buses with advance technology like GPS, PIS and PAS.For women security, there will be panic buttons and camera in all these buses and these will be linked with the control command centers.All the buses will possess a Public Grievance System and Head Control Command Center.The facility of online ticket booking through mobile phones or at the official website will also remain available.PM Modi will visit Indore and Rajgarh districts of MP on 23 June 2018. Urban Development Department has also  planned to hire 700 buses and the tender process is also complete.PM Modi\u2019s Visit to MP \u2013 Developmental WorksPradhan Mantri is going to make a one day visit to the Indore and Rajgarh District in MP. He will inaugurate various other developmental works which are listed below:-PM Modi will launch several other projects like Mohanpura Irrigation Project worth Rs. 3,866 core in Rajgarh district. This irrigation project will benefit 727 villages in Madhya Pradesh.In Indore, PM Modi will dedicate various developmental works worth Rs. 4713.75 crorePM will also provide awards to the winners of National Cleanliness Survey \u2013 Swachh Survekshan 2018. Indore, Bhopal & Chandigarh have secured first 3 positions in the nation wide survey.Central govt. will also hand over the houses to more than 1 lakh poor people. Around 1,00,219 Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana \u2013 PMAY Beneficiaries will be given the keys of their new houses to perform Griha Pravesh (House entrance) ceremony.Under Smart City Mission, PM will dedicate 23 developmental projects worth Rs. 278.26 crore in Indore, Bhopal, Jabalpur, Gwalior & Ujjain.PM Modi will also inaugurate drinking water schemes for 14 urban areas \u2013 Dharampuri Municipal Council (Dhar distric), Raisen Municipal Council, Begumganj, Obaidullaganj, Berasia (Bhopal), Athner (Betul), Badhvad (Ratlam), Dindori, Lakhnadon (Seoni), Narsinghpur, Sabalgarh, Bamor, Poursa (Morena) and Bamouri (Shahdol)In addition to all the above developmental works, govt. will also provide Parks developed under AMRUT Yojana in 10 urban areas. These areas includes Khandwa, Burhanpur, Khargone, Sehore, Hoshangabad, Bhopal, Pithampur, Guna, Gwalior, Rewa.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}