{"search_data": "Delhie-Dharti Geo Portal for Mapping of Govt. Properties in Delhie-Dharti Geo Portal for mapping of all government properties in Delhi using GIS technology with map showing location, govt. to know actual status of vacant property whether there is any encroachmentDelhi e-Dharti Geo PortalThis new e-dharti geoportal in Delhi would enable the government to effectively manage its properties. All the people who wants to check that the property belongs to govt. or not can access the E-Dharti Geo Portal through the link given below:- http://umd.nic.in/edharti/Master.aspxE-Dharti Geoportal Features & Property CardThe important features and highlights of this new E-Dharti Geo Portal are as follows:-The e-Dharti Geo Portal would enable the lessee of the property to see the basic details of property. Even the map showing the location of property is also available.In case the lessee asks for the Property Card, then he could get the same from the office.e-Dharti GeoPortal will also benefit the government as it would let the govt. know about the actual status of its vacant properties. Moreover, govt. would also came to know whether there is any encroachment on the property.Delhi government is in process of digitising and integrating other 3 modules \u2013 Sale Permission, Mortgage Permission and Gift Permission.After completion of digitisation and integration, this would serve a long way to streamline the working of property related matters. This e-dharti geoportal will make it more public friendly, efficient, accountable and transparent.Union housing minister, Hardeep Puri is keen on implementation of recommendations after getting approval from cabinet. The ministry wants that the promise is delivered quickly and the report doesn\u2019t remain in the shelf only.All the recommendations are going to be implemented in a given time frame. The Housing Ministry will soon prepare the cabinet proposal after going through the report.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: http://umd.nic.in/edharti/Master.aspx, https://currentaffairs.gktoday.in/government-launches-e-dharti-app-e-dharti-geoportal-03201966784.html  at  "}