{"search_data": "Central may2020.pmrf.in \u2013 Prime Minister Research Fellowship Scheme Online Application Form 2020Prime Minister Research Fellowship Scheme 2020 online application / registration form at may2020.pmrf.in, upto Rs. 80,000 per month to pursue doctoral studies (Ph.D.) in IITs and IISc, apply online at official pmrf.in websiteTable of Contents  Prime Minister Research Fellowship Scheme Online Application ProcedureList Of Supporting Documents For PMRF Application Form SubmissionPM Research Fellowship Amount / PMRF SalaryDirect Entry Channel for PMRF May 2020Lateral Entry Channel for PMRF Scheme May 2020PMRF Granting InstitutionsPMRF Application Fee 2020Prime Minister Research Fellowship Scheme Online Application ProcedureThe complete procedure to apply online for PMRF Application Form May 2020 has been specified below:-Firstly visit the official website https://may2020.pmrf.in/Subsequently on the homepage, click the \u201cApply Online\u201d tab present in the header.Next click the \u201cPlease Click Here To Apply Online\u201d link present at the bottom of the page.Afterwards, the Prime Minister Research Fellowship Online Application Form 2020 will appear as shown below:-PMRF Scheme Online Application FormHere candidates can fill all the necessary details accurately and upload supporting documents along with fees payment receipt.Finally, candidates can click the \u201cSubmit\u201d button to complete the PMRF Application Process.Furthermore, candidates can take a printout of the completed application form and keep it for any future reference.List Of Supporting Documents For PMRF Application Form SubmissionThe candidates must upload the following documents to fill and finally submit the PMRF Application Form:-Recent passport size photograph.Scanned Copy of Transcript / Gradesheet / Marksheet till the last completed Semester as PDF.Abstract (1000 words) as PDF File.Relevant Curriculum Vitae (CV) in PDF Format.SBI Collect E-Receipt PDF File.PM Research Fellowship Amount / PMRF SalaryThe candidates will get the following amount / salary for pursuing Doctoral Studies (Ph.D.):-Academic YearAmount (per month)First YearRs. 70,000Second YearRs. 70,000Third YearRs. 75,000Fourth YearRs. 80,000Fifth YearRs. 80,000In addition to this, govt. will also provide grant of Rs. 2 lakh per annum (total Rs. 10 lakh) to each fellow.Direct Entry Channel for PMRF May 2020In order to apply for PMRF through this direct entry channel, each candidate must satisfy the following eligibility criteria:-In the preceding three years, the candidate should have either:completed or be pursuing the final year of Bachelors or Masters degree in Science and Technology streams from any of the Institute/University recognized in India with CGPA of 8.0 or above and GATE score of 650 or above in the relevant subject (the GATE criteria is waived if the qualifying degree is from one of the centrally funded technical institutes), orqualified GATE and completed or be pursuing M.Tech./MS by research at one of the PMRF Granting Institutes having a minimum CGPA of 8.0 or above at the end of the first semester with a minimum of four courses.They apply and get selected in the Ph.D. programme in one the PMRF granting institutes.The PMRF granting institute, which has admitted the student in the Ph.D. programme through the regular selection process (interveiw), makes a strong recommendation for award of PMRF in view of his/her merit.The metrics on which the candidates will be judged will include (but not restricted to): research exposure, publications, performance in international academic competitions, grades and recommendation letters.Lateral Entry Channel for PMRF Scheme May 2020To apply for PMRF through this lateral entry channel, the candidate must satisfy all of the following criteria:-The candidate should be pursuing Ph.D. in one of the PMRF granting institutions. Further, he/she should have completed at most 12 months in the PhD programme if he/she joined the programme with a Master\u2019s degree; and should have completed at most 24 months in the PhD programme if he/she joined the PhD programme with a Bachelor\u2019s degree. He/she should have completed at least four courses in the PhD programme with CGPA / CPI of 8.5 or above.The PMRF Granting Institute, in which the student is enrolled, makes a strong recommendation for the candidate and uploads the relevant information on the PMRF web-portal, in view of his/her merit clearly demonstrated during the first 12-24 months (as relevant) of the program;The metrics on which the candidates will be judged include (but not restricted to) a strong research proposal, publications record and grades. Due weightage should be given to publication in reputed journals/conferences.PMRF Granting InstitutionsThe following institutions are PMRF Granting institutions under Prime Minister Research Fellowship Scheme:- A) IISc, Bengaluru B) All IISERs C) All IITs D) Jawaharlal Nehru University E) Banaras Hindu University F) University of Hyderabad G) Aligarh Muslim University H) Jamia Millia Islamia I) University of Delhi J) National Institute of Technology, TiruchirappalliPMRF Application Fee 2020The candidates must pay Rs. 1000 as PMRF Application Fees through the online mode to State Bank Of India (SBI). Candidates can pay their fees at the SBI Collect page. Here candidates have to accept the \u201cTerms and Conditions\u201d and then select the Payment Category as PMRF Application Fee 2020 and then make the required payment.After successful payment, candidates can download the PDF file of e-receipt along with SBI Collect Reference Number. Moreover, candidates have to upload this SBI Collect E-receipt PDF file and enter the SBI Collect Refernce Number to complete the application process.In order to boost research in academic institutions across the country, the HRD Ministry is creating a dedicated \u2018Research and Innovation Division. The division will be headed by a director who will be coordinating research work of various institutions coming under the HRD Ministry.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://may2020.pmrf.in/  at  "}