{"search_data": "MaharashtraMaharashtra Chief Minister\u2019s Employment Generation Programme (CMEGP) for MSMEs Maharashtra govt. to start Chief Minister's Employment Generation Programme (CMEGP Scheme) for MSMEs to create 10 lakh jobs in next 5 years, new entrepreneurs to get funding for project cost upto Rs. 50 lakh in manufacturing & upto Rs. 10 lakh in service sectorTable of Contents  Maharashtra CM Employment Generation Programme (CMEGP)CMEGP Maharashtra Online Application Form 2019-2020Maharashtra CMEGP Scheme ImplementationMaharashtra CM Employment Generation Programme (CMEGP)The state govt. would start CM Employment Generation Programme in which govt. aims to setup 1 lakh units in 5 years. Around 40% of these units would be started in rural areas. The target is to setup 10,000 micro ventures by 1st generation entrepreneurs. Following the similar lines of the Prime Minister\u2019s Employment Generation Programme (PMEGP), there would be CMEGP online application form and other procedures.CMEGP Maharashtra Online Application Form 2019-2020Below is the complete process to fill Maharashtra CMEGP online application form:-Firstly visit the official website at https://maha-cmegp.org.in/homepageAt the homepage, click at either \u201cOnline Application Form for Individual\u201d or \u201cOnline Application Form for Non-Individual\u201cDirect Link \u2013 CMEGP Maharashtra Online Form for IndividualThe CMEGP Online Application for Individual Applicant will appear as follows:-Maharashtra CMEGP Online Application Form IndividualAll the applicants can read CMEGP guidelines before filling the online application form and making registration by entering all the necessary details accurately. Then the registered users can make login using the link given here.Direct Link \u2013 CMEGP Maharashtra Login for IndividualsMaharashtra CMEGP Scheme ImplementationCMEGP Scheme aims to promote entrepreneurship and to tackle the issues related to unemployment. The new Chief Minister\u2019s Employment Generation Programme will provide financial assistance as a viability gap funding. This funding would be for approved project cost of upto Rs. 50 lakh for manufacturing activities and upto Rs. 10 lakh for service sector activities.Maharashtra CMEGP programme will cover manufacturing, service and agro-based activities, including those in retail. The complete plan for the concept, design and approvals of the scheme from preparation to implementation stages has already been made. The nodal bank for the CMEGP programme will be Corporation Bank and beneficiaries will be financed by nationalised and private sector banks like Yes Bank, ICICI Bank and HDFC Bank.In addition to this, the state govt. will develop 50 new industrial parks at taluka level. In order to meet the high demand for jobs, CM Employment Generation Programme for MSMEs would be a \u201cgame changer\u201d in the coming days. This is a very good inititiative by state government and shows that the govt. is aware about employment issues which is low since independence.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: http://www.newsonair.com/News?title=Maharashtra-govt-to-launch-Chief-Minister%26%2339%3Bs-Employment-Generation-Programme-for-MSMEs&id=365107  at  "}