{"search_data": "DelhiDelhi School Students Safety Rules [New] \u2013 Guidelines for Security of ChildrenDelhi Schools Students Safety Rules [New] \u2013 DoE GuidelinesIn the previous few months, incidents of physical, emotional, sexual assaults on school children are on a rise. These incidents are taking place inside the school boundary and outside the school premises. So, every govt. / govt. aided / private schools must be complaint to the issued directions. For this, they will have to follow the DoE Guidelines given below:-Formation of School Safety Sub-Committee \u2013 DoE wants that all schools must form a School Safety Sub-Committee to oversee minimum safety standards. This committee must comprises of the following members:-Principals, 4 Students, 4 Parents, Senior Teacher, Primary Teacher, Non-Teaching Staff.Healthy balance of male and female members.There would be different set of parents in the panel every year.Boundary Intact & under CCTV Surveillance \u2013 All the boundary walls of the schools must be completely intact without any space for entrance of unknown persons. These boundaries must also be covered under CCTV for identification of unknown persons outside the schools.Visitors Record \u2013 Schools must maintain a visitors register which will contain all the records of person who is visiting the school. This register must comprise of the name of visitor, address, purpose of visit and timings section. Nobody should be allowed without a pass.Staff Id Check at Entrance \u2013 At entrance, all the staff members will have to provide their Identity Proofs to enter into the school premises.Checking during Security walk \u2013 The following measures should be strictly taken:-Each school must have 2 gates for entrance. At each gate, there must be at-least 2 guards sitting there.Room of Administrator or Principal must be close to the School gates.Any Public Office in the school premises must have a separate entry / exit gate.Students can be only asked to stay back in school after the official hours with their parents prior concern.All the building must possess all the necessary certificates issued by any govt. certified agency.Delhi Schools Student Safety GuidelinesMonthly security walks would be conducted along with at-least 5 members of the panel. They must submit online safety reports to the directorate.If any of the guidelines for safety of children in schools and circulars are not followed, then DoE will start disciplinary proceedings against the heads of its own govt. schools and estate managers. For private schools, deliberate and repeated non-compliance of student safety guidelines will lead to withdrawal of recognition.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}