{"search_data": "Central Social Security Cover 2018 \u2013 Scheme for 50 Crore Indian Workers by PMOTable of Contents  Social Security Plan for Workers (Including Farmers)Social Security Cover \u2013 Rollout in 3 PhasesSocial Security Scheme \u2013 Identification of BeneficiariesSocial Security Plan for Workers (Including Farmers)Finance Ministry and Labour Ministry together will work out on the details of social security scheme. This social security plan requires around Rs. 2 lakh crore on complete roll-out for the lower 40% of total workforce in India. The remaining 60% of the total workforce will have to make partial or full contribution from their own pocket.Prime Minister Office (PMO) has directed Labour Ministry to carry forward the social security cover at recent high-level meeting. In the meeting, officials gave a presentation on the universal social security code. In addition to this, Finance Ministry is also agreed to implement this scheme for labourers / workers.This social security scheme will streamline the welfare benefit delivery mechanism to ensure that all the workers across India are provided Social Security Benefit.Universal Social Security PlanSocial Security Cover \u2013 Rollout in 3 PhasesLabour Ministry has given an advice to the Finance Ministry to roll-out this scheme gradually in phases. Initially, social security cover scheme will require a significantly lesser amount while the fund allocation can be increased afterwards over next 5-10 years to make it universal. This scheme will have a major impact on the lives of poor people which are its first beneficiaries and will get rolled out in 3 phases:-First Phase \u2013 In this phase, Social Security Scheme will cover all the workers getting the bare minimum coverage which includes health security and retirement benefits.Second Phase \u2013 This phase will see the addition of unemployment benefits to the benefits of 1st phase.Third Phase \u2013 All other welfare measures will get included in the last phase to provide complete social security benefits to the workers.Social Security Scheme 2018After the successful roll-out of social security scheme in 3 phases over next 10 years duration, govt. will make it universal.Social Security Scheme \u2013 Identification of BeneficiariesCentral govt. will classify the 500 million (5 crore) beneficiaries in 4 tiers:- Classification of BeneficiariesTierBeneficiaries1st TierDestitute and Below Poverty Line (BPL) people who are unable to contribute for security payments with the cost being borne entirely by the govt. through tax based schemes.2nd TierUnorganized sector workers who can contribute some amount but are not self sufficient. These may be covered under various subsidized schemes.3rd TierAll those people who can make necessary contributions either by themselves or jointly with their employers in order to become self sufficient.4th TierRelatively rich and prosperous people who can make their own provisions to meet emergencies or risks as it occurs.This social security system will provide a relief to the millions of under-privileged workers.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}