{"search_data": "Andhra PradeshAP YSR Rythu Bharosa Beneficiary List (District-Wise) 2019-2020 @ ysrrythubharosa.ap.gov.inAP YSR Rythu Bharosa Scheme Beneficiary List 2019-2020 available at ysrrythubharosa.ap.gov.in, apply online & find name in district wise list of beneficiariesAP YSR Rythu Bharosa Scheme Beneficiary List 2020Once the AP YSR Rythu Bharosa Scheme Apply Online process is completed, applicants can check their name in beneficiary list. Here is the complete process to check name in the AP YSR Rythu Bharosa Scheme 1st list of beneficiaries:-Firstly visit the official website at http://ysrrythubharosa.ap.gov.in/RBApp/index.htmlNow the registered officer can enter the mobile number, password, captcha and click at \u2018Login\u2018 button as shown below:-AP YSR Rythu Bharosa Scheme LoginThen enter registered officer mobile number and click on \u201cSend OTP\u201d button. Then enter OTP sent to your registered mobile number, enter new password, confirm password and click at \u201cVerify\u201d button.Afterwards, the page would be displayed containing information about eligible beneficiaries. This info. includes name of beneficiary, father name and Katha number. As per the officer registration, district, village and mandal details would be displayed as shown below:-AP YSR Rythu Bharosa List Name FindThen check the process on how to search beneficiary with katha number in the user manual.AP YSR Rythu Bharosa Scheme List of Beneficiaries (District Wise)The district wise data for AP YSR Rythu Bharosa Scheme is now available. People can now check the total number of Kathas submitted to AEO / MPEO and Kathas Verified by MAO. This complete information is available through the link given below:- http://ysrrythubharosa.ap.gov.in/RBApp/index.htmlThe entire list of farmers on a district wise basis can be checked here as shown below:-AP YSR Rythu Bharosa District Wise ListThis list contains all the information about the district name, total farmers, total farmers unsurveyed, total families and ROFR cultivators. AP YSR Rythu Bharosa District Wise Data also comprises of information of Kathas submitted to AEO / MPEO which are either approved or pending or rejected. Along with this, the district wise data also contain information of Kathas verified by MAO which are either approved or pending or rejected.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}