{"search_data": "Central CSC\u2019s Banking Services for Rural People under Digital India | Wi-Fi Choupal\u2019sAll CSC\u2019s to Become Business Correspondents for Banking ServicesAll the Common Service Centers (CSC\u2019s) works in Public Private Partnership (PPP) Model under Digital India Programme. CSC Scheme focuses on delivery of essential public utility services like Government to Citizen (G2C) Services, Business to Citizen (B2C) Services, Health Services, Financial Inclusion Services, Education Services and Agriculture Services. The important highlights of this decision are as follows:-CSC SPV will become Public Data Office Aggregator. This will develop a powerful content delivery network.All the benefits of technology advancement will be given to the Rural PeopleBharatNet Project will provide direct and indirect employment opportunities for many people which would result in the inclusive growth of the country.Infrastructure Development under Wi-Fi Choupal Service will be a national asset. All the service provide will be able to access these services on non-discriminatory basis.Govt. will utilize Common Service Centers (CSCs) for first line maintenance of BharatNet in India. VLEs are responsible for effective running of CSC\u2019s . So, the central govt. has released a publication to show the initiatives by the CSC VLEs in Wi-Fi Choupal. Four VLEs from Haridwar, Gondia, and Seohar shared the success stories of CSC WI-Fi Choupal Service \u2013 Digital Village in which various people got employment including people from SC/ST communities.Wi-Fi Choupal ServicesBesides the announcement of CSC providing Banking Services, govt. has also displayed the impact and progress of VLEs in promoting rural Wi-Fi Network Infrastructure. On the occasion, govt. has launched various services:-5000 Digital Villages \u2013 With W-Fi facility, people in around 5,000 villages can now avail the benefits of Internet Connectivity.Connectivity through Wi-Fi Choupal \u2013 Wi-Fi Choupals aims to connect 2.5 lakh gram panchayats with Optical Fibre Cables.CSC \u2013 IRCTC Signed MoU \u2013 Now CSC SPV will now work as IRCTC Agents and will be able to book general tickets.Support IndusInd Bank \u2013 IndusInd Bank will provide digital literacy to 3 lakh candidates through CSR Funds. All the candidates who receives this training will be certified under PMGDISHA.Information is power, so Wi-Fi choupals will be the knowledge centers in India. Now CSC will provide all the services in rural areas so people will not have to move to the cities to avail banking services.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}