{"search_data": "CentralSolar Chulha Design, Innovate & Create \u2013 Online Applications at startup.ongc.co.inTable of Contents  Solar Chulha Design, Innovate & Create Online ApplicationsSolar Chulha Design, Innovate & Create Selection ProcessContest Prize MoneyAdvertisementSolar Chulha Design, Innovate & Create Online ApplicationsInterested candidate can follow the below steps to make their registration for the contestSTEP 1: Visit the official website at https://startup.ongc.co.in. STEP 2: Click the image of \u201cTake up the Challenge to design an Efficient Electric Chulha\u201d on the homepage. STEP 3: Subsequently, click on the \u201cOnline Application form for Solar Chulha innovation Challenge \u2013 Form A\u201d link at the bottom of the page. STEP 4: After clicking, a registration form will appear on the screen. STEP 5: Now fill all the details in the application / registration form and click on \u201cSubmit\u201d button to complete the Part-A of the application form.Moreover, the shortlisted candidates can submit their entries as per application format (PART B) by 15th April 2018. Below given is the link of Part B application format.Application format \u2013 PART B.Solar Chulha Design, Innovate & Create Selection ProcessBelow given the detail of eligibility criteria and selection process of the candidate for the contestThe candidates including Entrepreneurs / Scientists / Researchers having interest in innovation can participate in the contest.The expert panel will shortlist 10 entries from all entries. However, this expert panel can shortlist more candidates, if found attractive.The shortlisted candidates including entrepreneurs, scientists, researchers for this contest will be asked to demonstrate their design of Solar Chulha at New Delhi by end of April 2018.In addition, the interested students from academic and research institutions will also be eligible to participate in the contest through the 3rd National Competition 2017 on Design, Development, and Demonstration of Solar Chulha.This 3rd National Competition 2017 announced by the ONGC Energy Center.However, any ONGC employee and any member of the evaluation panel, experts, and jury who are directly involved in the execution and evaluation are not eligible for the Contest.The candidate can see the details of 3rd National Competition 2017 under News/Tenders/Advertisement tab at ONGC Energy Center website.Contest Prize MoneyBelow given the list of 3 prizes which will be given to the winner candidates:- 1st Prize \u2013 Rs. 10 Lacs 2nd Prize \u2013 Rs. 5 Lacs 3rd Prize \u2013 Rs. 3 LacsB) About 1000 units will be initially procured for the demonstration in different regions of the country after the successful demonstration and testing of the performance of a few units. C) The candidate will get financial support for fabrication of these 1000 units. This financial support will be given from the startup fund set up by ONGC.Advertisement"}