{"search_data": "Central Rupee Slide Against Dollar \u2013 Check Imports, Boost Exports to Attract Dollar InflowsRupee Slide Against Dollar \u2013 5 Steps to Contain CADCurrent Account Deficit is the difference b/w exports and imports as well as foreign exchange flows such as remittances and investment. Rupee currently stands at around 71.84 against Dollar. Rupee has lost 12% since January which makes it Asia\u2019a worst performing currency. Recent crash of Turkish Lira continues to impact the global economy. 5 Steps to contain CAD are as follows:-Mandatory currency hedging for infrastructure to be reviewed.Easier Rules for manufacturing to raise funds overseas.Review of debt investment limits for FPIs.Exemption from withholding tax for Masala Bonds.Removal of restriction on Indian banks market making of bonds.PM Plans Rupee Slide Against DollarUS Dollar is continued to strengthen against major currencies and India\u2019s widening trade deficit dampened sentiment in foreign exchange market. The 5 steps to contain Current Account Deficit will increase the inflows 8 to 10 billion Dollars. Items which can face heat are mobiles, electronics and gold.RBI Steps to Attract Dollar InflowsList of non-essential imports will be prepared in consultation with other ministries. RBI is also expected to announce more steps in the coming days. The meeting recently concluded does not includes oil, which is also key pressure point for economy. Govt. will hold the lines of fiscal deficit which is 3.3% of GDP in current fiscal year. Trade deficit is widened to $80.4 billion in first 5 months of current fiscal from $67.3 billion in the same period last year.Finance Ministry will take all steps of fiscal deficit target for current year and maintain target. India\u2019s current account deficit deteriorated to 1.9% of GDP in FY 2018 and 0.6% in the previous year and forecast is to rise around 2.8% in current year. PM called the meeting against backdrop of rupee as well as growing anger over rising petrol and diesel prices. Expectation of package from govt. had helped rupee and stock markets from significant recovery in last few days.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}