{"search_data": "Central igxlaunch.com \u2013 Indian Gas Exchange (IGX) Portal Online Registration (Delivery Based Gas Trading)Indian Gas Exchange (IGX) Portal online registration form at igxlaunch.com, India's first nationwide online delivery based gas trading platform by Indian Energy Exchange (IEX), free market pricing of natural gasTable of Contents  Indian Gas Exchange (IGX) Portal Online Registration FormIGX Delivery Based Gas Trading Portal Launch by IEX IndiaInitiatives of Central Govt. to Make India Gas Based EconomyIndian Gas Exchange (IGX) Portal Online Registration FormHere is the complete process to make Indian Gas Exchange (IGX) Portal online registration:-Firstly visit the official website at https://www.iexindia.com/At the homepage, click at the \u201cIGX \u2013 Indian Gas Exchange an IEX Venture\u201d image to open https://www.igxindia.com/Upon reaching this website, click at the \u201cRegister Now\u201d tab as shown below:-IEX Indian Gas Exchange RegisterDirect Link \u2013 https://igxlaunch.com/Afterwards, the Indian Gas Exchange (IGX) portal online registration form will appear as shown below:-Indian Gas Exchange IGX Portal Online Registration FormHere applicants can enter their name, mobile number, organization, e-mail ID, city and click at the \u201cSubmit\u201d button to complete the IGX online registration process.IGX Delivery Based Gas Trading Portal Launch by IEX IndiaThe Union Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas has digitally inaugurated Indian Gas Exchange (IGX) Portal which is nation\u2019s first automated national-level gas trading platform. It is a part of PM Narendra Modi\u2019s vision of establishing next-gen energy infrastructure in the country and to make India a gas-based economy. This landmark development will enable efficient and competitive discovery of gas prices at designated physical hubs and promote and sustain a robust and efficient gas market.The Indian Gas Exchange (IGX) gas trading platform will play a vital role in addressing demand supply gaps and accelerate investments in the value chain. The transparency, reliability, flexibility, and competitiveness of our gas markets will contribute in driving India\u2019s industrial and economic growth. PM Modi since 2014 has given massive thrust on the expansion of gas infrastructure to meet our growing energy demands in a sustainable manner and also to address environmental challenges and uphold COP 21 commitments.India\u2019s energy transition towards environment-friendly fuel and the energy vision of India enunciated by PM Modi based on energy access, energy efficiency, energy sustainability and energy security is a part of the integrated approach to provide energy justice to citizens. Price discovery of delivered gas to end consumers along with non-discriminatory access to infrastructure will ensure availability and accessibility of natural gas to all gas consumers in a market driven and transparent manner.India is a price sensitive market. The Gas Exchange will play a key role in discovering our own price benchmarks. Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB) is working on a progressive & pro-business tarrif policy to make natural gas affordable in every part of the country & facilitate development of gas markets. Minister congratulated IEX Ltd. and IGX India on the launch of Indian Gas Exchange. This is a new chapter in the energy road-map of the country and a big step forward towards an Atmanirbhar Bharat (Self Reliant India).The central government has no business to be in business and the consumer is the king in a free market. With IGX online natural gas trading portal, India\u2019s vision on mega investments on Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) terminals, gas pipelines, CGD infrastructure and permission for market driven price mechanism will be materialized.Initiatives of Central Govt. to Make India Gas Based EconomyThe central govt. has taken various initiatives to make India a gas based economy. Indian gas market has multiple price bands for assets including pre-NELP, NELP, High Temperature and High pressure (HTHP) and Deepwater and Ultra Deep Water blocks. India will soon have 50 MMT LNG terminal capacity. Moreover, our country has long-term gas contracts with many countries like Qatar, Australia, Russia and the US and has made investments abroad in strategic assets in Mozamibque, Russia and other countries.There are various ongoing projects to strengthen the gas infrastructure in the country like Urja Ganga, Eastern India grid, Indradhanush project in the North-east, Dhamra-Dahej pipeline, coal gasification and CBM policy. The country will have more than 30,000 km of pipeline in next few years.The new IGX electronic trading platform for natural gas is the biggest indicator of the centre\u2019s progressive policy. The govt. has now completed the entire energy value chain from gas production from multiple sources and imports of LNG from different parts of globe to having a transparent price mechanism. PM Modi said that each person must have universal access to clean, affordable, sustainable and equitable supply of energy.For Official Press Release of Indian Gas Exchange as India\u2019s first gas trading platform, click the link below:- https://www.iexindia.com/Uploads/NewsUpdate/15_06_2020Press-Release-IGX-Launch-June-15-2020.pdf  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://pib.gov.in/PressReleasePage.aspx?PRID=1631721, https://igxlaunch.com/, https://www.iexindia.com/, https://www.igxindia.com/  at  "}