{"search_data": "Central IRCTC Rail Madad App \u2013 Register Your Complaint Online for Train / StationTable of Contents  Rail Madad App \u2013 How to Register Your Complaint Online for Train & Station1. Download / Install Rail Madad App \u2013 Registration of Passengers at RPGRAMS2. Make Registration of Your Complaint Online for Train at Rail Madad App3. Make Registration of Your Complaint Online for Station GrievancesHelpline Number of Indian RailwaysRail Madad App \u2013 How to Register Your Complaint Online for Train & StationRail MADAD App registers a complaint with minimum inputs from passenger, issues unique ID instantly and transfers complaint online to concerned officials for immediate action. This Digital India Initiative also provides info. about the action taken on complaint to passenger through SMS. The complete procedure to make complaint registration for train and station is as follows:-1. Download / Install Rail Madad App \u2013 Registration of Passengers at RPGRAMSBelow is the complete procedure to download and install the Indian Railways New Mobile App and make passengers registration:-Download the 4.5 mb Rail Madad App from the Google Play Store or Apple IOS (IPhone) Store.Direct Link \u2013 Candidates can download this app directly through the link \u2013 Download Rail Madad AppAfter downloading, install it on your phone to make online complaints. But for this purpose, passengers will have to make registration on the downloaded app as shown in the figure:-Rail Madad App Passenger RegistrationEnter Name & Mobile Number and click at \u201cGet OTP\u201d button. Verify the OTP and click at \u201cRegister\u201d button to make passenger registration on the mobile app successful. A new page of Indian Railways Grievance Redressal App will then open as follows:-Rail Madad App Passenger Complaint RegistrationOn this page, passengers can make complaint registration for Train, Station, Check Helpline Number, Summary of Complaints Resolution for last 3 months over Indian Railways, Complaint Resolution Summary for Train / Station, Major Complaint Types for Train / Station, Zone Wise Analysis, Top 5 Shatabadi & Rajdhani with Minimum / Maximum Complaints.2. Make Registration of Your Complaint Online for Train at Rail Madad AppAll the passengers can now make registration of their complaint regarding Train issues online at the \u201cRail Madad\u201d App. For this, they have to click at the \u201cRegister My Complaint For Train\u201d tab. The Passenger Complaint Registration Form for  complaints regarding Trains will appear as follows:-Train Complaint Registration IRCTC Rail Madad App3. Make Registration of Your Complaint Online for Station GrievancesPeople can also make online registration of their complaint regarding Station issues. For this, click at the \u201cRegister My Complaint For Station\u201c. The Passenger Complaint Registration Form for complaints regarding Stations will appear as follows:-Station Complaint Registration Rail Madad AppHelpline Number of Indian RailwaysRail MADAD mobile app displays various helpline numbers and provides direct calling facility for immediate assistance in one easy step. The Phone Numbers / Railway Helpline Numbers for assistance to passengers during travel are given as follows:-Phone NumberDepartment138Medical Helpline139PNR182RPF Helpline1098Child Helpline1072Train Accident Helpline1091Women\u2019s Helpline155210Vigilance Helpline58888Clean My Coach1800111321Catering ComplaintData Analysis will generate trends on several performance parameters of a selected train / station like cleanliness, amenities and other things. Hierarchy based dashboard / reports will be available for management at Division / Zonal / Railway board level.Also Read \u2013 Rail SAARTHI Mobile App Download \u2013 Ticket Booking & Train Running Status \u2013 View Details  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}