{"search_data": "PunjabPunjab Job Helpline for Unemployed Youth \u2013 Ghar Ghar Rozgar SchemePunjab CM starts Job Helpline for unemployed youth under Ghar Ghar Rozgar Scheme which has 110 seat backend call center to provide job opportunitiesPunjab Job Helpline \u2013 Ghar Ghar Rozgar SchemeCM Captain Amarinder will intensify efforts to provide job opportunities to youth in order to tap potential of youth. Punjab Job Helpline to create synergies among dept of Employment Generation & Training, Technical Education & Industries. This is a vibrant workforce with around 2 lakh youth joining the workforce per year. Punjab govt. will provide employment assistance to at-least 1 member of every household in Punjab for which helpline would prove a boon.Punjab Job Helpline will create job opportunities for unemployed youth according to emerging needs to local industry in state. This is an example of govt. using technology to serve underprivileged sections of society. This job helpline will identify job seekers, source vacancies from large corporates, SMEs, informal sector etc.This job helpline will deliver suitable job opportunities directly to job seekers. All the job-seekers will get notifications about new job opportunities matching profile via automated phone calls, SMS & WhatsApp. Punjab govt. has made concerned efforts in order to facilitate employment to unemployed. This would result in facilitation of 11 lakh employment opportunities and more than 1000 jobs (self or wage) per day.The 5th Mega Rozgar Mela has resulted in 1.16 lakh employment opportunities. Punjab Job Helpline system would be operated & developed by Unnati Online Pvt. Ltd. This helpline number is recognized by Startup India run by govt. of India. This initiative is launched under Ghar Ghar Rozgar Scheme & Karobar Mission (PGRKAM).  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://www.dnaindia.com/india/report-amarinder-singh-launches-first-ever-punjab-job-helpline-for-unemployed-youth-2799609  at  "}