{"search_data": "Central goal.tribal.gov.in \u2013 Going Online As Leaders (GOAL) Programme Apply Online Form [Mentor / Mentee]Apply online as Mentor / Mentee for Going Online As Leaders (GOAL) Programme 2020 at goal.tribal.gov.in, fill registration / application formTable of Contents  Going Online As Leaders (GOAL) Programme Application / Registration FormApply Online As Mentee for GOALApply Online As Mentor for GOALNeed for GOAL Programme for Tribal YouthsIntent and Content of GOAL SchemePreserving Tribal Culture of India through GOAL Tribal InitiativeTotal Beneficiaries of GOAL ProgrammeSelection of Mentor / Mentee in GOAL ProgrammeCore Areas of 36 Week GOAL ProgrammeWhat will Selected Mentees Get in GOAL SchemeFeatures of Going Online As Leaders (GOAL) ProgramGoing Online As Leaders (GOAL) Programme Application / Registration FormIndia is filled with tremendous energy of the youth and whatever future we desire of, we must keep the youth at the centre. By doing this, we can surge ahead at an unmatchable pace. This programme will act as a bridge for the socially marginalised youth with a plethora of opportunities and resources on the other side. Below is the complete process to fill GOAL programme online application / registration form.Apply Online As Mentee for GOALThe Mentees and Mentors have to register on portal (goal.tribal.gov.in) which will be open for two months from 4 May 2020 to 3 July 2020. Here is the apply online process for tribal youths to apply as mentee under GOAL programme:-Firstly visit the official website at http://goal.tribal.gov.in/At the homepage, scroll over the \u201cApply As Mentee\u201d tab and then click at the \u201cRegistration Form\u201d link:-Goal Tribal Apply Online MenteeAfterwards, the Mentee Registration Form for GOAL Programme will appear as shown below:-Goal Tribal Mentee Registration FormHere applicants can enter all the necessary details accurately and click at \u201cSubmit\u201d button to complete the Mentee registration form filling process for GOAL programme.Apply Online As Mentor for GOALHere is the apply online process for leading industry and academia persons to apply as mentor under GOAL programme:-Visit the same official website at http://goal.tribal.gov.in/At the homepage, scroll over the \u201cApply As Mentor\u201d tab and then click at the \u201cRegistration Form\u201d link:-Goal Tribal Apply Online MentorAfterwards, the Mentor Registration Form for GOAL Programme will appear as shown below:-Mentor Registration Form Goal TribalHere applicants can enter all the necessary details accurately and click at \u201cSubmit\u201d button to complete the Mentor registration form filling process for GOAL programme.Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) has been requested to associate CSCs (Common Service Centres) in facilitating ST youth who do not have smartphone for registration with GOAL Tribal Portal.Need for GOAL Programme for Tribal YouthsIn view of the challenges posed by COVID-19 pandemic, Digital literacy has gained importance. MoTA\u2019s partnership with Facebook through GOAL programme will provide platform to tribal youth and women to move ahead in life. This GOAL program intends to upskill and empower 5,000 tribal youths in the current phase. It will help in harnessing the full potential of digital platforms and tools to learn new ways of doing business, explore and connect with domestic and international markets. The digital skilling and technology will integrate tribal youths into the mainstream.Going Online As Leaders (GOAL) has been designed with a long term vision to develop the potential of tribal youth and women to help them acquire skills and knowledge through mentorship in various sectors. It includes horticulture, food processing, bee keeping, tribal art and culture, medicinal herbs, entrepreneurship among others. Starting with 5000 people, the GOAL programme can be extended to cover any number of tribal persons who show keen interest in being mentored to achieve their goals.Intent and Content of GOAL SchemeThe intent and content of GOAL programme is unique and influential. This program will go a long way in creating an environment for empowerment of tribal women by connecting them with digital world and use digital platforms to groom their talents. GOAL program will be successful in making fruitful impact towards enabling the ST youth to become financially independent. This programme demonstrates affirmative action which will go a long way to reduce the gap between tribal and non-tribal youth and will enlist participation of tribal youth in national building.Preserving Tribal Culture of India through GOAL Tribal InitiativeMoTA is dedicated to enhance the preservation of the tribal culture of India and enhancing the competitiveness of our tribal communities. So at this point, govt. will build more entrepreneurial capacity of our tribal youth through phase 2 of our GOAL program by creating a learning and training platform that will connect 5000 tribal learners with experienced mentors. GOAL program will ignite several tribal enterprises which will be built by the program\u2019s alumni.Total Beneficiaries of GOAL ProgrammeIn this program, 5000 scheduled tribe youth (to be called as \u201cMentees\u201d) will get an excellent opportunity to get training by experts from different disciplines and fields (to be called as \u201cMentors\u201d). There will be 1 mentor for 2 mentees. The program aims to enable Scheduled Tribe (ST) youth in remote areas to use digital platforms for sharing their aspirations, dreams and talent with their mentors.Selection of Mentor / Mentee in GOAL ProgrammeBoth the mentee and mentors would be selected on the basis of their inputs in such a way that it represents tribal youth from varied professions and has representation from urban and rural area across India. Central govt. and Facebook has designed an IT based system to match mentors and mentees so that they are from similar profession and preferably speak same language. All the selected mentees will remain engaged in the program for the next 9 months or 36 weeks.Core Areas of 36 Week GOAL ProgrammeThese 36 weeks will comprise of 28 weeks of mentorship followed by 8 weeks of internship. The GOAL program will focus on 3 core areas which are given here:-Digital LiteracyLife SkillsLeadership and EntrepreneurshipThe main focus would be on sectors such as Agriculture, Art & Culture, Handicrafts & Textiles, Health, Nutrition among others. At-least 250 fellows who are getting scholarship from MoTA under National Scholarship and Fellowship Scheme and are part of Tribal Talent Pool will also be mentored through the program.What will Selected Mentees Get in GOAL SchemeAll the selected mentees will get smartphones and Internet access (for next 1 year) by Facebook. They will also get exposure to various external forums that will give opportunity to the participants to showcase their entrepreneurial skills and leadership abilities. Efforts will be made to integrate the program with other government schemes such as:-Mudra YojanaKaushal Vikas YojanaJan Dhan YojanaSkill IndiaStart Up IndiaStand Up IndiaThis will enable participants to leverage opportunities provided under these government schemes. The GOAL program will also create awareness amongst tribal beneficiaries about various schemes initiated by central and state Governments for welfare of STs as well as their fundamental duties.Features of Going Online As Leaders (GOAL) ProgramHere are the important features and highlights of Going Online As Leaders (GOAL) programme:-GOAL is a joint initiative of Facebook India and Ministry of Tribal Affairs (MoTA) of central government.Around 5,000 young tribal entrepreneurs, professionals, artisans and artists will be trained on digital skills under digital entrepreneurship program.All the aspiring tribal candidates are invited to apply online at the goal.tribal.gov.in portal.The start date for online application is 4 May 2020 and last date to apply online is 3 July 2020.The leaders from industry and academia are invited to register as mentors on official website.Facebook had on its own run the GOAL project on pilot basis from February 2019 to October 2019 in 5 states with 100 mentees and 25 mentors. This programme had received enthusiastic response and was a huge success. So, Facebook approached MoTA for a joint initiative under affirmative action and help Facebook in selection of mentees, design curriculum and various activities under the program.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://pib.gov.in/PressReleasePage.aspx?PRID=1624021, http://goal.tribal.gov.in/  at  "}