{"search_data": "Central Web Portal for Real Estate Regulatory | PM Awas Yojana (PMAY) Urban Progress PM Modi led central govt. to launch common web portal for Real Estate Regulatory to exchange views & share details of important cases to prevent regulators to pass contradictory orders, check PM Awas Yojana Urban progress, advanced deadline for PMAY-UPMAY Urban Progress \u2013 Advance Deadline to Deliver 1 Cr HousesThe central govt. has set the year 2022 as deadline for PM Awas Yojana. Now the central govt. will advance the house delivery deadline by around 2 years. Poor People would now get their own homes till 2020. Union govt. has sanctioned around 81 lakh houses with an investment of Rs. 4.83 lakh crore. Out of these, around 48 lakh houses are under construction and around 26 lakh have been completed and occupied by the PMAY Urban beneficiaries.Now the sanction for the remaining houses is expected to be given till the 1st quarter of FY 2020. Accordingly, construction of houses is expected to completed till the end of FY 2020. Modi govt. is committed to further improve urban infrastructure while citing that PMAY (Urban), AMRUT and Smart Cities Mission were launched 4 years back with the aim of transforming urban landscape.In 2015-16, around 5,835 families have availed interest subsidy while in FY 2018-19, almost 5,67,950 families have availed credit linked subsidy scheme benefits under PMAY Urban. Moreover in FY 2019-20, around 6,32,309 families have taken benefits of CLSS under PMAY Urban. The central govt. has achieved this target only by taking states on board through cooperative federalism.Web Portal Real Estate RegulatorsCommon Web Portal for Real Estate RegulatoryThe central govt. will setup a common web portal for Realty Regulatory. This common online platform for real estate regulators of all states can be used to exchange views and share details of important cases. This would prevent the regulators from passing of certain contradictory orders.The web based platform will also have the details of projects and real estate agents that are registered with all regulatory authorities across the country.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: Times News Network  at  "}