{"search_data": "Central Integrated Scheme for School Education Launched by Central Govt. to Merge SSA & RMSAIntegrated Scheme will provide assistance to the state to universalize access to school education from pre-nursery to class XII.Table of Contents  Integrated Scheme for School EducationIntegrated Scheme for School Education \u2013 ImpactBenefits of Integrated Scheme for School EducationOther Important Decisions in CCEA Meeting (28 March 2018)Integrated Scheme for School EducationThe scheme aims to provide inclusive and equitable quality education to students in accordance with Sustainable Development Goal for Education. For this reason, govt. will focus on 2 T\u2019s \u2013 Teacher and Technology. The main objectives os this scheme are as follows:-To provide quality education and enhance learning outcomes of students.Bridge social as well as gender gaps in education.To ensure equity and inclusion at all levels of schooling i.e from primary classes to class 12th.Govt. will ensure minimization of standards in provisions of schooling.To promote vocalization of school education.Ensuring successful implementation of Right to free and compulsory education through providing 25% reservation under RTE Act 2009.Up-gradation of SCERT / DIET as nodal agencies for training of teachers.This is a major initiative of the central govt. to provide quality education to all students and reduce the drop-out rate of students.Integrated Scheme for School Education \u2013 ImpactAll the states and UTs are flexible to plan their efforts in accordance with scheme norms and resources available. This will raise transition rate of various levels of school education and ensures that children completes their education.This scheme will enable schools to provide quality education and provide them skills and knowledge necessary for overall development. Accordingly, students after getting high quality education can get good jobs which will reduce unemployment.Benefits of Integrated Scheme for School EducationThis scheme will ensure the following benefits for the welfare of schools, children and education:-Following a holistic approach towards education. The primary focus is on quality of education and improvement in learning outcomes.All the levels of schooling whether it is pre-schooling or senior secondary are included to raise level of education.This scheme will allow formation of an integrated administration which looks at school as an association.Teachers will now have capacity building features.Strengthening of Teacher education institutions such as SCERTs and DIETs to improve levels of teacher training.Usage of digital technologies in education system like smart classrooms, digital boards and DTK channels.Promotion of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan through activities like \u201cSwachh Vidyalaya\u201d.Improvement in Infrastructure quality in various govt. schools.Promotion of Beti Bachao Beti Padhao Scheme with special emphasis on \u201cKaushal Vikas\u201d in schools.Supporting initiatives like Khelo India School Games to identify young talents in schools.Under Integrated Scheme for School Education, govt. will give special preference to Educationally Backward Blocks (EBBs), LWEs, Special Focus Districts (SFDs), Border areas and 115 aspirational districts.Other Important Decisions in CCEA Meeting (28 March 2018)\u2014 CCEA approves Credit Guarantee Fund for Education Loans (CGFEL) and Central Sector Interest Subsidy (CSIS) Scheme. These 2 schemes \u2013 education loan guarantee scheme and education loan interest subsidy scheme will provide education loans to students without any guarantee and full interest subsidy. \u2014 CCEA also approves to enhance the coverage of Pradhan Mantri Rojgar Protsahan Yojana  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}