{"search_data": "Central One Nation One Card \u2013 National Common Mobility Card by PM Narendra Modi One Nation One Card / National Common Mobility Card launched by PM Narendra Modi, use NCMC RuPay transport card to pay for bus travel, toll taxes, parking charges, retail shopping & money withdrawal \u0939\u093f\u0902\u0926\u0940 \u092e\u0947\u0902 \u092a\u0922\u093c\u0947\u0902Table of Contents  One Nation One Card by PM Narendra ModiNational Common Mobility Card (NCMC)Challenges Associated with Automatic Fare Collection System (AFC)One Nation One Card by PM Narendra ModiOne Nation One Card runs on RuPay Card and this would eliminate all the travel related problems of citizens. Sometimes, people does not have the change to pay in cash while making travel in metro, bus, train or for toll and parking. To overcome this issue, an automatic fare collection system was introduced. India used to import this One Nation One Card system from foreign countries. As these systems were made by different players, a card issued in 1 city does not works in another city. Thus, govt. has asked various ministries, departments and banks to resolve this issue. Now the dream of One Nation One Card has finally been realized.National Common Mobility Card (NCMC)People can even withdraw money using this National Common Mobility Card (NCMC). People can utilize this RuPay card to travel in metros in any part of the country. In simple terms, the central govt. has merged RuPay card with the mobility card. As per the official sources, NCMC cards are bank issued cards on debit / credit / pre-paid card product platform.Any customer can utilize this One Nation One Card to make payments across all segments which includes metro, bus, suburban railways, toll, parking, smart city and retail shopping. This NCMC card will have stored value on card which will also support offline transactions across all travel needs with min. financial risks to all the involved stake-holders. Moreover, this card will also comprise of a service area feature which supports operator specific applications like monthly passes, season tickets etc.National Common Mobility Card NCMCChallenges Associated with Automatic Fare Collection System (AFC)The major challenge associated with Automatic Fare Collection (AFC) system implementation in India till date is the lack of indigenous solution provider. As of now, AFC systems which are deployed at various metro locations are from foreign players. So to avoid vendor lock-in and create an inter-operable system, govt. has developed National Common Mobility Card (NCMC) under Make in India initiative.The central govt. aims to ensure a seamless travel across metros and other transport systems. In addition to this, govt. also wants to facilitate citizens in retail shopping and purchases.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}