{"search_data": "CentralCBSE Latest News | Paper Leak \u2013 Class 12th Re-Exam on 25 April & 10th Re-Test LaterCBSE Latest News on Paper LeakThe important features and highlights of the CBSE latest decision on re-examination are as follows:-Class 12th Re-Exam \u2013 After Economics paper gets leaked on social media, CBSE has now announced to conduct a re-examination of economics paper on 25 April 2018.Class 10th Re-Exam \u2013 As Math Exam Paper Leak was confined to the Delhi, NCR and Haryana regions only, so CBSE will conduct re-test of 10th Mathematics examination in these regions only. The final decision would be taken after 15 days as the inquiry is in its initial stage. If at all, the re-test will happen then it is going to be conducted in the month of July.Since the paper does not get leaked outside India so there would be no re-exam outside the country. Preliminary inquiry in the Paper Leak matter is ongoing at 2 levels \u2013 by the police and intra-departmental probe. A Special Investigation Team (SIT) having 2 deputy commissioners (DC) of police, four assistant commissioners (AC) of police and five inspectors is already set up to investigate the matter.Progress in Paper Leak MatterEducation secretary stated that the immediate concern of the central board is to provide relief to the children who have suffered. CBSE is conducting inquiry to find and nail the person who did this illegal work. Police has detained 6 students in Chatra district of Jharkhand in connection with paper leak. Delhi Crime Branch has also questioned admin of around 10 WhatsApp groups, coaching center owner\u2019s, students and other tutors about the leak.Delhi Police seeks the help and has written to IT giant \u201cGoogle\u201d to share the details of the mail ID from where CBSE chairperson has received an e-mail regarding paper leak. Police also asks for details of exam centers, superintendents and banks where paper were kept before examination.Till Now, Police has registered 2 cases \u2013 First case is lodged on 27 March for the leak of Class 12th Economics Paper. Second Case is lodged on 28 March for Class 10th Maths paper leak after a complaint from CBSE Regional Director. Police has registered these 2 cases for the charges of criminal breach of trust, cheating and criminal conspiracy.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}