{"search_data": "ChhattisgarhCG Aawas Portal \u2013 Single Window Residential Colony Approval by Chhattishgarh CM Bhupesh BaghelCG Aawas Portal started by Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel, CG Awas single window system for residential colony approval process in 100 days, updates regarding application would be provided through the CG Aawas Portal and SMSTable of Contents  Single Window CG Aawas PortalCG Aawas Residential Colony ApprovalCG Aawas System LaunchHow to Get Approval through CG Awas PortalSingle Window CG Aawas PortalCG Aawas Portal will enable completion of entire residential colonies approval process within 100 days. If the colonizer applicant has not submitted the integrated records of the land plot owned by him/her, additional time-limit of 40 days will be given for land record submission. Under this residential colony approval process, applicant will not have to run from pillar to post in any government offices.CG Aawas Residential Colony ApprovalPreviously, the process to obtain permit to develop residential colony used to take 1.5 to 2 years. But with this CG Aawas Portal, the entire process has been made time bound i.e within 100 days. All the works related to issuance of land diversion certificates, approved layouts and colony development permit would be done through this single window system.All the applicants will be provided updates regarding the application submitted through the portal and SMS. CG Aawas Portal will avoid recurrence of the process and accountability of the officials concerned will be ensured. The single window system will make the process more transparent and save time of the applicants.CG Aawas System LaunchChief Minister Mr. Bhupesh Baghel of Chhattisgarh had given instructions to simplify the residential colony development process in the state by implementing single-window system. Housing and Environment Minister was made the nodal department for making this process more transparent and simple. As per the CM instruction, a committee was constituted to study the currently implemented system and to recommend changes to transform it into more efficient system.On the basis of the recommendations of the committee, Housing and Environment Department developed software with the help of NIC. CM Baghel inaugurated the CG-AWAS (CG-Automated Work Flow and Approval System) as single-window system on 25 November 2019. Thereafter, for effective implementation of single window system, required amendments have been made and integrated in the Acts-Rules of departments concerned.Single Window \u2018CG Aawas\u2019 System launched, on instructions of HCM Mr. Baghel\u23fa\ufe0f Approval to be provided within 100 days: No frequent visits to offices required\u23fa\ufe0f Updates regarding application to be provided through portal and SMSRead More Here: https://t.co/3kEp1OJqXg pic.twitter.com/SNwHKrXwjK\u2014 CMO Chhattisgarh (@ChhattisgarhCMO) May 22, 2020 How to Get Approval through CG Awas PortalChhattisgarh govt. has appointed Additional District Magistrate in every district for proper implementation of the single-window system. SDM will forward each application to the departments concerned for further action. After getting approval from departments concerned, final approval will be given by SDM only. District Collectors will review the applications received under aforementioned system every week in the time-bound meeting.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://twitter.com/ChhattisgarhCMO  at  "}