{"search_data": "Uttar PradeshUP Submersible Pumps Online Registration Mandatory | Ground Water Act 2020Uttar Pradesh govt. approves Ground Water Act 2020, Submersible Pumps online registration mandatory in UP, rainwater harvesting for clearance of govt. / private buildings map, boring companies registration also compulsory, punishment, fines (penalty) provision for those who leads to pollution / contamination of groundwater levelUP Submersible Pumps Online Registration \u2013 Ground Water Act 2020Here are the important features and highlights of the Ground Water Act 2020:-Submersible Pumps Online Registration \u2013 After passing of this act, it would be mandatory to perform registration to install solar pumps. Farmers and domestic consumers are not required to pay any fees. Moreover, Submersible Pump online registration facility would be provided soon.Rainwater Harvesting \u2013 Rainwater Harvesting System has also been made mandatory in all private and government schools and colleges.Boring Companies Registration \u2013 It will be compulsory for the boring companies to get their registration completed. These companies needs to provide all the information every 3 months. The main purpose is to raise the groundwater levels.Clearance of Govt./ Private Buildings Map \u2013 The map of all the government and private buildings will be cleared only when these buildings have provision to install rainwater harvesting system.In Urban areas, if a landlord installs submersible pump to build a house larger than 300 sq.m area, then it would be necessary to install rainwater harvesting system. For this purpose, a committee of gram panchayat to state level has been formed. In case someone pollutes groundwater through boring pipes then there is provision of punishment and penalty.Punishment & Fines on Contaminating Groundwater \u2013 Ground Water Act 2020In case the person is caught for 1st time for polluting groundwater level, then there is provision of punishment from 6 months upto 1 year and Rs. 2-5 lakh fine. If person is caught for 2nd time, then there would be penalty of Rs. 5-10 lakhs and punishment from 2-5 years. In case the person is caught for the 3rd time, then there would be penalty of Rs. 10-20 lakhs and punishment from 5-7 years.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://www.aninews.in/news/national/general-news/up-govt-brings-ground-water-act-2020-to-improve-ground-water-levels20200211232256/  at  "}