{"search_data": "Uttar PradeshUP Jhatpat Connection Yojana \u2013 Apply Online for New Electricity Connections UPPCL proposed Jhatpat Connection Yojana to provide electricity connections to APL families at Rs. 100 and BPL families at Rs. 10, apply online at upenergy.in/uppcl/en or fill application form at e-suvidha centers or jan suvidha kendras for new power connection under instant connection schemeApply Online for New Electricity Connection in UPBelow is the complete process to apply online for new electricity connections (Jhatpat bijli connection) in Uttar Pradesh state:-Firstly visit the official UPPCL website at upenergy.in/uppcl/enAt the homepage, click at the \u201cApply for New Electricity Connection (Jhatpat Connection)\u201d under \u2018Connection Services\u2019 section.Direct Link \u2013 UP Electricity Connection Apply Form LoginThe electricity connection form login page in UP will appear as follows:-UP New Electricity Connection Form LoginAfterwards, the applicants will have to click at the \u201cNew Registration\u201d button to open the UP Jhatpat Connection Yojana Online Registration Form as shown below:-UP Electricity Connection Online Registration FormHere candidates can enter name, date of birth, e-mail ID, mobile number and click at \u201cRegister\u201d button to complete the new electricity connection registration process.All the applicants will then get their electricity connections installed at their preferred locations.UP Jhatpat Connection YojanaThis instant electricity connection scheme is a new move of UPPCL to address the repeated complaints of consumers who face harassment in getting power connection. Now, any person either of APL / BPL category can apply online at upenergy.in/uppcl/en to get an electricity connection by following an easy and swift process. BPL consumers can fill the online application form and make payment of Rs. 10 to avail new power connection. APL consumers can also apply online and submit amount of Rs. 100 for getting electricity connections of 1 KW to 25 KW supply.All the applications submitted by the consumers will be immediately forwarded to the engineers who are concerned under a swift processing system for quick approval. An engineer will visit the spot and file an assessment for power connection within a stipulated time period. Consumers will have to make online application for Jhatpat Connection Yojana at uppcl.org to get electricity connections at the earliest.Moreover, govt. will soon start a new software to provide power connections to BPL / APL families. After submission of online applications, junior engineers (JE) will have to submit the report in a given time frame. In case JE doesn\u2019t submits the report, then assistant engineers (AE) will approve the application and give electricity connections to the applicants. In case the applicants are not able to apply online, then applicants can apply through e-suvidha kendras and jan suvidha kendras.Uttar Pradesh Jhatpat Yojana Electricity ConnectionsUPPCL aims to provide electricity connections to the consumers in hassle free manner and now applicants will not have to make unnecessary visits to the govt. offices. In this Jhatpat Connection Yojana, the main focus is on providing electricity connections to APL / BPL families in a dedicated time duration.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}