{"search_data": "TelanganaTelangana Rythu Bandhu Life Insurance Bonds Scheme (Rs. 5 Lakh) for FarmersTelangana Rythu Bandhu Life Insurance Bonds Scheme 2018The important features and highlights of this Life Insurance Scheme are as follows:-All the land owners who have received monetary assistance of Rs. 4,000 under the Input / Financial Investment Support Scheme (FISS) are eligible.This scheme is limited to farmers falling in the age group of 18 to 60 years.The insurance amount in case of either death or accident will be given to the family of farmers in 10 days itself. The state govt. has made an investment of around 650 crore in Rythu Bandhu Life Insurance Bonds.Rythu Bandhu Life Insurance Bonds (as the scheme is called) is expected to benefit 2.8 million farmers (out of 5.8 million).Previously under the Rythu Bandhu Scheme, the state govt. has given investment support to bear farming costs to boost agricultural production.On 6th August 2018, Agriculture Minister Pocharam Srinivas has distributed the life insurance bonds to farmers in Kamareddy district. Various officials from the agriculture department took up the distribution in other parts of the state.The state govt. believes that most of the insurance bonds will be given to the farmers by 15 September.Rythu Bandhu Life Insurance Bonds Scheme is continuous as eligible farmers will be added from time to time. Moreover, all those beneficiaries who become ineligible after attaining the age of 60 years will be removed from the list of beneficiaries.Telangana 5 Lakh Life Insurance FarmersTenant farmers are consistently demanding to add their names in the list of beneficiaries. But the tenant farmers are not included in this Life Insurance Scheme as well as in Rythu Bandhu Scheme. Such farmers are left out because it is very difficult to identify tenant farmers and that they have no rights over the lands.Earlier, the state govt. had distributed cheques of Rs. 4,000 under Rythu Bandhu programme. This scheme benefited around 5.8 million (58 lakh) land holding farmers and provides assistance to bear farming costs such as purchase of fertilizers and seeds.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}