{"000-section": {"000-title": "Punjab CM Announces Welfare Schemes for Construction Workers", "001-normal": "According to the board, about 6.39 lakh workers have been registered with the Board and among them, around 3.70 lakh workers are depositing regularly their contribution. In addition, remaining 3.06 lakh workers have been registered under various existing schemes. The Board has been spent so far around Rs. 522.33 cr on various welfare schemes while Rs. 22.17 cr on the management of administrative expenditure."}, "001-section": {"000-title": "Punjab Sewa Portal", "001-normal": "On the portal, the construction workers in the state can make their registration by linking with Aadhaar and Mobile number. However, if any workers had completed their registration process on the portal earlier, having to need the renew their account by linking their Aadhaar number and Mobile number at Punjab Sewa portal.", "002-normal": "The registered beneficiary will get the financial benefits directly into their bank accounts. The board has informed that they had integrated the whole network of web portal bocw.punjab.gov.in with the Punjab Sewa Portal. The construction workers will be able to file their applications at their nearest Sewa Kendras."}, "002-section": {"000-title": "Mobile Health Lab Scheme", "001-normal": "The state government has given its approval for mobile health lad scheme to provide medical checkup facility for the construction workers. This Scheme is being operational by the Punjab Building & Other Construction Workers\u2019 Welfare Board. The board will provide medical checkup facility at just Rs. 124 per worker.", "002-normal": "Moreover, the state government has also agreed to accept the Board\u2019s proposal that the construction worker will get the medical treatment from PGI or any government hospital. The worker will not be required to pay medical reimbursement bills certified by the office of civil surgeon. The reimbursement bills will be paid directly by the board to avoid any procedural delays."}}