{"search_data": "KarnatakaKarnataka CM Self Employment Scheme Online Application Form at cmegp.kar.nic.inKarnataka govt. invites Chief Minister Self Employment Scheme online application form 2019 at cmegp.kar.nic.in to provide govt. subsidy (margin money) of 25% to 35% on loans upto Rs. 10 lakh, check CMEGP details & documentsTable of Contents  1. Chief Minister Self Employment Scheme (CMEGP) Online Application Form2. Download CM Self Employment Scheme (CMEGP) Application Form3. Check CMEGP Application Status OnlineChief Minister Self Employment Generation Programme (CMEGP) DocumentsCMEGP Details & Eligibility CriteriaChief Minister Self Employment Scheme Helpline Numbers1. Chief Minister Self Employment Scheme (CMEGP) Online Application FormBelow is the complete procedure to apply online for cm self employment generation programme:-Firstly visit the official website cmegp.kar.nic.inAt the homepage, click at the \u201cApply Online\u201d linkNext the CMEGP online application submission page will appear as follows:-CM Self Employment Scheme Apply OnlineHere candidates needs to select the agency and enter the aadhaar number and click at the \u201cProceed\u201d button.Afterwards, CM Self Employment scheme online application form will appear as shown below:-CMEGP Online Application Form 2019In this CMEGP application form, candidates needs to enter the basic details, address, qualification, EDP training, proposed unit, project cost, means of finance, bank details, details of loan, grants & subsidy details and click at the \u201cSave\u201d button to complete the application process.Furthermore, candidates can take a printout of the completed application form of Chief Minister Self Employment scheme.This printout of the CMEGP application form along with the detailed project report and supporting documents needs to be submitted to the respective offices. To check further details, candidates can make Login using the username and password. Applicants can also check how to apply online for CMEGP in case of any difficulty in understanding the online application process.2. Download CM Self Employment Scheme (CMEGP) Application FormThis is the offline process for Chief Minister Self Employment scheme where candidates can download the application form in PDF format. To download the CMEGP offline application form in PDF format, click the link below:- Download CMEGP Application Form (PDF)The CM Self Employment scheme application form (PDF) will appear as follows:-Download CM Self Employment Scheme Application Form Here candidates needs to fill all the necessary details, affix recent photograph and submit the completed application form to the respective offices.3. Check CMEGP Application Status OnlineAfter the final submission of CMEGP application form, candidates can also check their CMEGP application status online at the official website. The application status page for Chief Minister Self Employment Generation Programme will appear as below:-Karnataka CMEGP Application Status Online Here candidates needs to enter the application ID, click at the captcha button and click at the \u201cView\u201d button to check the application status.Chief Minister Self Employment Generation Programme (CMEGP) DocumentsBelow is the list of the documents which are required to take the benefit of Chief Minister Self Employment Scheme 2019:-Recent passport photographDetailed project report (DPR)Age proofEducational qualificationsEDP training certificateVoter ID / Ration cardRural certificate for proposed unitEx-servicemen certificatePermission from Gram PanchayatCaste certificate for SC / ST / OBC / MINList of machineries to be purchasedPhysically handicapped certificateCMEGP Details & Eligibility CriteriaAll the applicants can check the CMEGP details and eligibility criteria before filling the CMEGP online application form:-Individual entrepreneurs in rural areas can avail margin money or govt. subsidy ranging from 25% to 35% of total project cost.Under CMEGP, the maximum allowed project cost is Rs. 10 lakh for any single unit.Availability of the capital expenditure loan will be only or manufacturing and service activities only.All general category entrepreneurs can avail subsidy upto Rs. 2.5 lakh while entrepreneurs belonging to SC /ST / OBC / PH / Women / Minorities category can avail subsidy upto Rs. 3.5 lakh.Pubic sector banks and Regional rural banks (RRB) are the financial agencies to provide margin money to entrepreneurs.The entrepreneurs must fulfill the age criteria to become eligible for CMEGP. For general category candidates, the age must lie between 21 to 35 years while for special category candidates, the specified age group is 21 to 45 years.Entrepreneurship Development Training (EDP) to the beneficiary is compulsory at CEDOK \u2013 Centre for Entrepreneurship Development of Karnataka or at RUDSET \u2013 Rural Development & Self Employment Training.Only one unit can be setup by a family to get assistance under CMEGP in order to provide benefits to a large number of families.The govt. subsidy is available only for a single new unit which is setup in rural area with a lock-in period of 3 years and even there is no income limit.General category beneficiaries needs to contribute 10% of the total project cost while the special category beneficiary entrepreneurs needs to contribute 5% of the project cost.Chief Minister Self Employment Scheme Helpline NumbersIn case of any query regarding CMEGP application process, applicants can contact the Head office / Corporate Office at \u2013 Department of Industries and Commerce, #49, South Block, Khanija Bhavan, Race Course Road, Bengaluru \u2013 560001.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}