{"search_data": "Central Rashtriya Arogya Nidhi (RAN) Scheme \u2013 Ayushman Bharat Beneficiaries to Get Rs. 15 Lakh AssistanceRashtriya Arogya Nidhi (RAN) Scheme 2020-2021 to provide Rs. 15 lakh aid to all Ayushman Bharat beneficiaries not covered under various packages of the health insurance programRashtriya Arogya Nidhi (RAN) Scheme 2020-2021Ayushman Bharat \u2013 PM Jan Arogya Yojana only provide cashless treatment upto Rs. 5 lakh in public and private emapnelled hospitals. But some AB-PMJAY beneficiaries suffers from critical illness for which treatment cost is more and can range in between Rs. 5 to 15 lakhs. So, Rashtriya Arogya Nidhi Scheme will benefit those Ayushman Bharat Yojana beneficiaries who needs treatment of more than Rs. 5 lakh. They can now avail upto Rs. 15 lakh assistance under RAN Scheme.The Union Health ministry has issued revised guidelines of the RAN umbrella scheme. This decision is taken after receiving complaints that poor patients suffering from life-threatening diseases have not been able to avail full treatment under AB-PMJAY Scheme. Central govt. has sent memorandum to all government hospitals, all regional cancer centres, health secretaries of all states, department of expenditure and the National Health Authority.National Health Agency Guidelines on RAN SchemeNHA is the apex body for implementation of Ayushman Bharat Health Insurance Scheme. As per the medical advice, if suggested treatment is not covered under AB-PMJAY approved list of packages, then financial assistance upto Rs. 15 lakh can be provided to AB-PMJAY beneficiaries. This additional assistance amount would be given out of the umbrella Rashtriya Arogya Nidhi Scheme. AIIMS and NHA had written to the Health Ministry suggesting patients deprived treatment under AB-PMJAY could be covered in the RAN umbrella scheme.Now all those patients who were refused treatment under PMJAY as they suffers from serious ailments. These ailments includes blood cancer, chronic liver disease and required organ and bone marrow transplants. All of these ailments does not figure among 1,393 medical packages mentioned under Ayushman Bharat Yojana. So from now onward, treatment for these serious ailments would be covered under Rashtriya Arogya Nidhi (RAN) Scheme.Previously in November 2019, Health Ministry had rejected proposal sent by NHA and AIIMS. Health Ministry had earlier suggested NHA to consider inclusion of transplantation of organs under procedures covered under PM-JAY. Moreover, ministry also suggested to enhance the ceiling of Rs. 5 lakh per annum so that patients eligible under PM-JAY may avail facilities under the Ayushman Bharat Scheme only.National Human Rights Commission had recently sought report over complaint about patients holding BPL cards not getting RAN benefits. Moreover, this report mentions that people who had availed benefits of AB-PMJAY scheme and even if they suffers from life threatening diseases whose expenditure is more than Rs. 5 lakh, they are not covered under Ayushman Bharat Yojana. So, the Health Ministry has made amendment in the guidelines in interest of poor patients to enable them to avail cashless treatment upto Rs. 15 lakh in case of life threatening diseases. These includes patients requiring kidney transplant, bone marrow or liver transplant and are suffering and facing problems in getting treatment as they are PMJAY card holders. All of these now would be covered under Rashtriya Arogya Nidhi Scheme 2020-21.All welfare policies of central govt. are meant to benefit poor people so they must be reviewed on a timely basis. Policy makers and bureaucracy should be empathetic towards its beneficiaries. Responsible doctors should also remain vigilant about such things.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://www.businesstoday.in/current/economy-politics/ayushman-bharat-beneficiaries-to-get-upto-rs-15-lakh-aid-under-ran-scheme/story/396032.html  at  "}