{"search_data": "Central PM Modi to Launch Sabki Yojana Sabka Vikas Campaign in 2.5 Lakh Gram PanchayatsSabki Yojana Sabka Vikas Campaign by Modi GovernmentIn gram panchayats, Gram Sabha Meetings will be held. In these meetings, trained assistants belonging to all 29 sectors of gram panchayats (11th schedule of Constitution) needs to remain present. These sectors will include agriculture, rural housing, drinking water, poverty alleviation programmes, social welfare, cultural activities, market and fairs etc. Village \u2018Sakhis\u2019 or MGNREGA support staff can also remain present as assistants.Sabki Yojana Sabka Vikas Campaign Gram PanchayatsThey will have to explain the work carried out in the last few years and their near future plans alongwith financial details. This is because Gram Panchayat developmental plans have been largely unorganised. So, govt. wants these plans to be more structured with the involvement of masses. This would enable people to know about the developmental activities and the progress made in the previous years.If all the allocated funds are utilized properly, then gram panchayats could become micro-models of development. After 14th Finance Commission (FFC) recommendations, an average big sized GP will have an annual budget of Rs. 5 crore.So if these funds are properly used, then a lots of developmental works can be carried out. Developmental plans of each GP will be shared with the Central govt. after the campaign is over. Letters are issued and sent to state chief secretaries to kickstart the programme.Sabki Yojana Sabka Vikas Drive by Central GovertmentSabki Yojana Sabka Vikas Drive is to be launched by Pradhan Mantri Narendra Modi on birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. Previously, the central government has decided to conclude intensive Gram Swaraj Abhiyan in 2 phases. This programme was to ensure universal coverage and 100% penetration of 7 major schemes:-Pradhan Mantri Ujjawala Yojana (for gas connections)Saubhagya (household electricity connections)Ujala (distribution of LED bulbs)Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (no-frill bank accounts)Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Yojana (Life Insurance Cover)Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (Insurance Scheme)Mission Indradhanush (Immunization Programme)Restructured Rashtriya Gram Swaraj Abhiyan (RGSA) is being approved to be implemented till 2022. Panchayati Raj Institutions will make increased usage of e-governance to provide effective service delivery and transparency. Villages with higher SC / ST population and 117 identified aspirational districts lying at the bottom of socio-economic indicators will be given priority.In the 2 phased campaign of Gram Swaraj Abhiyan, poor people received 4.77 million new LPG gas connections, 3 million household electricity connections, 6.55 million LED bulbs, 7.35 million new Jan Dhan accounts and 5.04 million beneficiaries were enrolled in life insurance schemes.Source: https://www.business-standard.com/article/economy-policy/modi-govt-set-to-roll-out-sabki-yojana-sabka-vikas-campaign-on-october-2-118082600674_1.html  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}