{"search_data": "Central PM Gram Samridhi Yojana 2019 to Create Jobs in Micro Food Processing Sector Pradhan Mantri Gram Samridhi Yojana 2019 to create jobs in Micro Food Processing sector, 70,000 units with capitalization less than Rs. 10 lakh to setupPM Gram Samridhi Yojana 2019The important features and highlights of Pradhan Mantri Gram Samridhi Yojana are as follows:-The central govt. was already working on PM Gram Samriddhi Yojana with World Bank which is now going to be launched soon.PM Gram Samridhi Yojana will focus on micro enterprises with capitalization of less than Rs. 10 lakh rupees.The main objective is to target small farmers. The central govt. will facilitate creation of 60 to 70 thousand such units within a short time.The pilot project would be done in 4 states namely Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Punjab and initiative will be expanded subsequently.PM Gram Samridhi Yojana aims at development of modern infrastructure to encourage entrepreneurs to set up food processing units, upgrade technology in existing unit, improve management of the units and give technical support.The Indian govt. would also focus on getting NBFC funds for the food processing sector and to give a push to the National Food Processing Policy. World Bank will be giving Rs. 1,500 crore while Rs. 1,000 crore will be borne by the centre while state governments will put in Rs 500 crore, totalling it to Rs. 3,000 crore.Gram Samridhi Yojana also aims to provide common facility centres and business incubators in rural areas. The incubator will provide infrastructure and services to support the growth of new food businesses. It will provide equipment and programs to help a businessmen or an entrepreneur launch a new product through development, market launch and growth in sales.The \u201cWorld Food India\u201d event is very near and it would be bigger and better than last time. A review meeting of Officers would be held to understand the progress that has happened in the past few months. Moreover, the Union govt. would also focus on giving boost to food processing sector in the North East. This area has a tremendous potential and it is going to be one of the focused geographies.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}