{"search_data": "Central Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana Account Online Form / Interest Rate Calculator 2020 [Updated]Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana Account application form, interest rate, calculator 2020 available, apply online for 8.4% interest in SSY& compare post office saving schemes, ssy account maturity period is at the age of 21 years, see ssy chart & use PM sukanya samriddhi yojana calculatorTable of Contents  How to Open the Sukanya Samriddhi Account?Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana Account Online Forms 2020Changes in SSY Guidelines 2020 (Dated 12 December 2019)Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana Interest Rate Calculator ChartSalient Features of Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana AccountMore information about Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana AccountDocuments Required for Opening an Account?Compare All Post Office Saving Schemes 2020Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana Account \u2013 Highlights at a GlanceRegional Offices for more information about Sukanya Samriddhi AccountReferencesHow to Open the Sukanya Samriddhi Account?Parents or the legal guardian can open an account for up to two girl child. In case of the twins or the triples, an exemption will be made on production of a certificate from authorized medical institutions.The account can be opened by the parents until the girl child attain the age of 10 years.The account can only be opened on the name of the girl child, the guardian will only be able to deposit the amount on behalf of the girl child.The account can be opened in Post office across India or the designate bank branches.Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana Account Online Forms 2020Here we are providing you the links of SSY Account Online forms which can be downloaded to open Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana Account:-SSY Account Opening Form (FORM I) \u2013 Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana Account Opening Form OnlineSukanya Samriddhi Yojana Form SBISSY Application for Loan / Withdrawal (FORM 3) \u2013 Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana Application Loan / WithdrawalApplication for Transfer of SSY Account (FORM 5) \u2013 Sukanya Samriddhi Account Transfer FormApplication for premature closure of SSY Account (FORM 8) \u2013 Sukanya Samriddhi Account Premature Closure FormApplication for Closure of SSY Account (FORM 9) \u2013 Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana Account Closure FormVisit the link \u2013 Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana Forms Download PDF to download the pay-in slip, pass book and all other SSY related forms.Changes in SSY Guidelines 2020 (Dated 12 December 2019)1. Higher interest rate for default accounts If people does not deposit even the minimum amount i.e. Rs. 250 in a financial year in the Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana account, it will be considered as an account in default. As per the newly notified rules, such \u201cdefault accounts\u201d will earn the interest rate applicable to the scheme, till the maturity date of the account, if not regularized till then. Previously, such default accounts earned only the post office savings bank interest rate. Default accounts due to death of guardian continue to be eligible for interest as per the scheme\u2019s new rules.2. Changes in rules for premature closure of account As per the new scheme rules, the premature closure of a Sukanya Samriddhi account is allowed in case of death of the girl child or on compassionate grounds. The phrase \u201cCompassionate grounds\u201d would include situations such as medical treatment of the account holder for life threatening diseases or death of guardian. The old rules of the scheme allowed closure of the account in two cases i.e due to death of girl child and in case of change in residency status of girl child.3. Operation of SSY account According to the newly notified rules of SSY Scheme, the account cannot be operated by the girl child till she attains the age of 18 years as against 10 years as per old rules. As per the new rules, the account will be operated by the guardian till the account holder (i.e., the girl child) attains the age of 18 years. On attaining the age of 18 years, then necessary documents are required to be submitted to the bank/post office where the account is being held.4. Opening of accounts for more than two girl children There has been change in the additional documentation required for opening of account in case of more than two girl children. According to the newly notified rules, if accounts are to be opened in case of more than two girl children, then along with the birth certificates, an individual is required to submit an affidavit. The old rules required the guardian to submit medical certificate.5. Other changes Along with these changes, in the new rules of Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana, certain provisions have been removed and others have been clarified.The new rules have removed the provision of reversing wrongly credited interest in the account considering that as per the new rules the scheme interest now applies in case of all default accounts (and not the Post Office account saving interest rate). Also, under the new rules interest will be credited to the account at the end of the financial year.Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana Interest Rate Calculator ChartHere is the complete chart for calculating interest rate of Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana:-Calculator Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana AccountSalient Features of Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana AccountSukanya Samriddhi Account has an attractive interest rate of 8.4% (1 January 2020 to 31 March 2020) which is regulated by Ministry of Finance from time to time (on quarterly basis)The account can be opened in the name of girl child till she attain the age of 10 years.Only one account can be opened in the name of a girl child.Account can be opened in the Post Offices or notified branches of the commercial banks like HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, PNB Bank, SBI Bank or any other bank across the country.Birth certificate of the girl child in whose name the account is opened must be produced and submitted.Account can be opened with a minimum amount of Rs. 250 and thereafter any amount can be deposited in multiples of Rs. 100/-.Deposits in an account can be made till completion of 14 years, from the date of opening of the account.A minimum of Rs. 250/- has to be deposited in a financial year.Interest @ as may be notified by the government from time to time will be calculated on yearly compounded basis and credited to the account.Maximum Rs. 1,50,000/- can be deposited in one financial year.One withdrawal shall be allowed on attaining the age of 18 years of account holder to meet education/marriage expenses at the rate of 50% of the balance at the credit of preceding financial year.The account can be transferred anywhere in India to any post office/bank.The account shall mature on the completion of 21 years from the date of opening of the account.More information about Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana AccountA penalty of Rs. 50 will be imposed if the account is not credited with the minimum amount.The guardians have to deposit amount for 14 years, no deposit is required after that till the maturity.A premature withdrawal (at the end of the previous financial year) of 50% of the accumulated amount is allowed after the girl child turns 18.The account can be closed after the completion of 21 years and the money can be withdrawn. If the amount is not withdrawn, it will continue to earn interest.As per Section 80C of Income Tax Act, the investment of Rs. 1.5 lakh per year including the earned interest will be completely exempted from the income tax.Investment in Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana scheme is exempted from Income Tax under section 80C. The scheme offers Tax Benefit under TripleE regimen ie. Principal, interest and outflow all are tax exempted.Documents Required for Opening an Account?Birth certificate of the girl child.Address and photo identity proof (PAN Card, Voter ID, Aadhar Card) of the guardian.Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana primarily focuses on the girl child and is flagship scheme of the Indian Post Office and of the Modi Govt.Moreover, this interest earned is better than than the other Post Office Savings Scheme like Public Provident Fund, Kisan Vikas Patra, National Savings Certificate Scheme etc.Compare All Post Office Saving Schemes 2020Before making investment, people can also compare SSY to other Post Office Schemes like Public Provident Fund, National Saving Certificate, Kisan Vikas Patra, Post Office Savings Account, Senior Citizen Saving Scheme, Recurring Deposit \u2013 RD Account, Time Deposit (TD) Account, Monthly Income Scheme (MIS) \u2013 SSY vs PPF vs NSC vs KVP vs vs SCSS vs RD vs MIS vs TD vs Post Office Savings Account. Furthermore for details of all Post Office Savings Scheme, please visit \u2013 indiapost.gov.inSukanya Samriddhi Yojana Account \u2013 Highlights at a GlanceThe important features and highlights of Sukanya Samriddhi Accounts are as follows:-Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana Interest Rate & CalculatorMinimum SSY Account Balance & Maintaining BalanceAs the sukanya samriddhi yojana chart from 1 January 2020, SSY rate of interest is 8.4% calculated on yearly basis and compounded annuallyMinimum amount is Rs. 250 and maximum ssy account is Rs. 1.5 lakh per year. Accordingly candidates can make investment in multiples of Rs. 100 in Lump Sump amount or in installments. Moreover, there is no limit on the number of deposits either in month or in FY.Salient Features & SSY Tax BenefitsAny parent or guardian can open this sukanya samriddhi account in the name of girl child.One account is applicable for one girl child and maximum two accounts for 2 girl children of a single family.People can open this SSY account up to 10 years from the Date of Birth of Girl Child.Subscribers must have to deposit Rs. 250 in a financial year otherwise their account is discontinued and also a penalty of Rs. 50.At the age of 18 years of girl, subscribers are allowed to make partial withdrawal. However, full sukanya samriddhi yojana withdrawal is applicable only after 21 years.Furthermore in case the girl is married, premature closure / full ssy withdrawal is permissible.Regional Offices for more information about Sukanya Samriddhi AccountRegional CentersReferences\u2014 SSY Official Website \u2014 Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana Rules \u2014 SSY Updated GuidelinesMore information about the scheme can be obtained from the official website of National Saving Institute at www.nsiindia.gov.in or indiapost.gov.in  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: indiapost.gov.in  at  "}