{"search_data": "Andhra Pradeshap.gov.in \u2013 AP Nirudyoga Bruthi Scheme Online Registration (Unemployment Allowance)Update \u2013 Make AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Scheme Online Registration to get Unemployment Allowance of Rs. 2,000 p.m.The state govt. has launched this scheme on 2nd December 2017 and registrations are open. Unemployed candidates can make registration as soon as possible. This monthly financial assistance will provide support to the students till the time they get a suitable job.AP Nirudyoga Bruthi Scheme 2018-19 Online RegistrationAP Nirudyoga Bruthi / Unemployment Allowance is a kind of monthly pension to the jobless students. The state govt. will provide Rs. 1500 to each unemployed candidate in the state irrespective of their caste and religion. To avail the benefits of this scheme, candidates can follow the procedure given below:-Offline Process \u2013 All the jobless candidates needs to make a visit to the employment exchange.The officials at the unemployment exchange will check whether the candidate is eligible for unemployment allowance by verifying the supporting documents.Documents List \u2013 The documents list includes the 12th class passing certificate, age proof, residence certificate and declaration that the candidate is unemployed.Non-Eligibility \u2013 Any candidate working either in any govt. or private job (at any salary) are not eligible for this unemployment allowance.After successful verification of documents, officials will confirm the registration of the youth at employment exchangeAfterwards, candidates can fill the application form in both offline or online modes. For online mode, make registration at yuvanestham.ap.gov.inThe online application forms are now available at the official website.All the jobless youths from Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, East Godavari, West Godavari, Guntur, Krishna, Nellore, Prakasam, Kadapa, Kurnool, Chittoor and Anantapur districts will be benefited from this scheme. Moreover, to find a suitable job, unemployed youths can make \u201cRegistration\u201d at Mukhyamantri Yuva Nestam Portal http://yuvanestham.ap.gov.in/CMyuvaNapp/index.htmlEligibility Criteria \u2013 AP Nirudyoga Bruthi Scheme 2018-19The candidate must fulfill following eligibility criteria to apply online for Unemployment Allowance Scheme:-Only the jobless applicants from the Andhra Pradesh state can apply.All the applicants must have passed at-least Class 12th or equivalent.The age of the applicant must lie between 18 to 40 yearsApplicants are entitled to receive allowances based upon his / her qualifications.Only the applicants registered with the employment exchange (registered at AP State Employment Exchange Portal) will receive this monthly pension.This scheme will cover all the major districts in Andhra Pradesh and the scheme can reach upto 12 lakh candidates. Govt. will give special emphasis on the rural youths and will provide allowance as per their qualifications.Also Read \u2013 AP govt. will launch an Unemployment Pension Scheme \u2013 AP Mukhyamantri Yuva Nestam Scheme  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}