{"000-section": {"000-title": "UP Govt. Plans New Dress Code for Madrasa Students \u2013 Uniforms to Replace Kurta Pyjama"}, "001-section": {"000-title": "UP New Dress Code for Madrasa Students \u2013 Uniforms to Replace Kurta Pyjama", "001-normal": "UP govt. is going to launch a new dress code for the madrasa students to modernize the school education. This move will remove the demarcation of the madrasa students with that of other school students. Now, Unifroms will replace the existing Kurta Pyjama and Topi in such educational institutions.", "002-normal": "The information on supply of these uniforms is not yet disclosed as whether the students have to purchase these uniforms or the state govt. will provide these dresses. This decision will soon be taken in the first cabinet meeting. UP Govt. wants that there must be a complete transparency in the education system and to realize the ultimate aim of \u201cSabka Saath Sabka Vikas\u201d.", "003-normal": "Mohsin Raza, State Minister for Muslim Waqf and Haj has given this information on 3rd July 2018. According to the minister, the ruling party is doing justice to the minority committee as all the other parties use them only as vote bank. The current dressing sense reflects a complete demarcation between the Madarsa going students and the school going students."}, "002-section": {"000-title": "Opposition of New Dress Code To Replace Kurta Pyjama in UP", "001-normal": "This move has started receiving mixed reactions from the Muslim community. Some Muslim leaders finds this move as bogus and considers it as an interference in their religion, Islam. Others leaders are saying that Kurta Pyjama and Topi are the already existing uniforms (dress code) of the madrasa students.", "002-normal": "Various other opposition leaders felt that this move is to derail the issue of non-providing of salaries to the Madrasas teachers. Moreover, it is an issue of deep concern for some maulvi and ullama who discard this move by saying that \u201cIn India, govt. will not decide at what the school uniform is\u201d."}}