{"search_data": "PunjabPunjab Smart Ration Card Scheme 2020 to Replace Atta-Dal Scheme Blue CardsPunjab Smart ration card scheme 2020 is revamped version of Atta-Dal scheme under which all blue ration cards would be replaced with new smart ration cards, all new smart rashan cards to come with chip for BPL familiesTable of Contents  Punjab Smart Ration Card Scheme 2020Punjab Smart Ration Card Scheme Online ApplySmart Ration Card Punjab Form PDF DownloadPunjab Smart Ration Card Scheme 2020The important features and highlights of Punjab Smart Ration Card Scheme 2020 are as follows:-The total number of beneficiaries of Smart Rashan Card Scheme are 1.42 crore in Punjab.Eldest Woman will be the head of family.Wheat will be given at a price of Rs. 2/- per Kg.The biannual entitlement of wheat will be given at one go.The distribution will be done at the doorstep of the beneficiary directly by the Punjab govt. food and civil supplies department.The beneficiary gets to keep the wheat bags in which he gets the grains.The beneficiaries are de-duplicated on the basis Aaadhar number.The beneficiary can go to the consumer court, in case they does not get wheat as per his entitlement.Wheat will be delivered in 30 kg standard packing.The department officials, beneficiary, transporter, gram panchayat, nigrani committee \u2013 all will work in coordination for proper disbursement of wheat.There is no upper cap. Every member gets five kg wheat per month.Punjab Smart Ration Card Scheme Online ApplyAll the details of the cardholder beneficiaries have been digitized and are available at the transparency portal of Department of Food, Civil Supplies & Consumer Affairs Punjab at http://foodsuppb.gov.in/.The block wise list of active fair price shops is also available on the same portal and can be accessed by selecting the district and block. This new Smart Ration card scheme is being implemented under the National Food Security Act-2013. The state government has already seeded all the details of the beneficiaries with their Aadhar numbers.Smart Ration Card Punjab Form PDF DownloadHere is the direct link to download the new Punjab ration card application form in PDF format:- Punjab Smart Ration Card Form PDFAll the candidates can now download the new ration card form pdf to apply for ration card and get rashan at subsidized rates. The Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL), Broadcasting Engineering Consultants Indian Ltd. (BECIL) and Electronics Corporation of India Limited (ECIL) has got the direction from the state government for implementing the work of computerization of TPDS. The companies will follow a proper price discovery mechanism for successful implementation the scheme.The state government would also provide e-PoS (Electronic Point of Sale) machines would be deployed at various purchase centers, DCP godowns and FPS in the state. These machines would be linked to the weighing machines and IRIS scanners. The machines would use the bio-metric Aadhar based identification of the beneficiaries. The new smart ration cards in place of normal blue card will help increase the efficiency and bring more transparency in the whole public distribution system.More details about the earlier Atta \u2013 Dal scheme are available at http://foodsuppb.nic.in/newattadal.html.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}