{"search_data": "OdishaOdisha Star Rating Program for Industries \u2013 Real Time Check on PollutionOdisha Star Rating Program to Monitor Emissions of IndustriesAs per the pollution standards set by the regulatory authority, govt. will categorize the industries on scale of 1 to 5. Odisha Star-Rating Program is an initiative to help citizens to identify the sources of pollution in their neighbourhoods and cities. This scheme will empower people to ensure that industries near them comply with existing Indian Laws. Star Rating Program is an example of state\u2019s 3T framework \u2013 Teamwork, Transparency and Technology.This programme is a joint effort of State Pollution Control Board (SPCB) and Energy Policy Institute of the University of Chicago (EPIC). Rating of Industries would help in strengthening the pollution board\u2019s regulatory efforts. Odisha Star Rating Program is based on particulate matter (PM) emissions of large manufacturers of steel, cement, aluminium and other major power plants.CM Naveen Patnaik marked the launch of this Star Rating Programme and has demonstrated commitment to transparency and accountability. Govt. will utilize continuously monitored emissions data which is captured in real time from several major industrial plants. This will encourage industries to adopt clean technologies to maintain clean environment. To access rating, visit the official website https://ospcb.info/ to ensure improved transparency and cleaner air.CM @Naveen_Odisha launched first-of-its-kind star-rating programme for industries. The bold transparency initiative will disclose pollution information from nearby industries to public with real time data. @EPIC_India distilled emission data into ratings. #3T pic.twitter.com/a3ocsMaUiR\u2014 CMO Odisha (@CMO_Odisha) September 17, 2018Citizens will also be able to identify the sources of pollution through this Star-Rating Programme. This program aims to cover 20 industrial plants initially and will eventually cover all 136 plants with continuously monitored data. SPCB will conduct inspection and re-calibration drives to check air quality data and will update ratings every month. EPIC India researchers and TCD will implement this program in a phased manner.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}