{"000-section": {"000-title": "Haryana Govt. Education Loan Scheme 2020-21 \u2013 Credit Guarantee for Students"}, "001-section": {"000-title": "Haryana Govt. announces new Education Loan Scheme 2020-21 for students, no collateral guarantee to avail loans, credit guarantee to be given by the govt."}, "002-section": {"000-title": "Haryana Govt. Education Loan Scheme 2020-21", "001-normal": "Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar announced a new education loan scheme for students pursuing medical, engineering & professional courses. The govt. will provide credit guarantee on education loans and there would be no requirement of collateral guarantee to be given to banks. CM has made this announcement on concluding day of Budget session of Haryana Vidhan Sabha. The state govt. will set up credit guarantee fund for this purpose.", "002-normal": "All the students after completion of study & moratorium period are required to refund the education loan amount to banks. CM has also announced to create a separate Foreign Cooperation department. This dept. will focus on state govt\u2019s initiative for welfare of Non-Resident Indians (NRIs), investment and youth employment. A group of farmers, workers, students, teachers and Panchayati Raj Institutions representatives and Urban Local Bodies would be sent on foreign tours.", "003-normal": "From this tour, these officials will provide information about latest schemes at the global level. Around 500 members of such different categories would be sent on foreign tours to different countries every year. In another move, govt. announces that all state govt. employees & their dependents will get lungs and heart transplant facility. Moreover, if govt. employee / dependent gets lungs transplantation from Gleneagles Global Health City, Chennai, Apollo Hospital, Chennai and MGM Hospital Private Limited, Chennai or in any other equivalent Hospital, the reimbursement of expenditure would be made by the government.", "004-normal": "Besides this, in case heart transplant is performed at recognized hospitals, reimbursement of expenditure would be made by the state government. The House also passed the Haryana Scheduled Castes (Reservation in admission in government educational institutions) Bill, 2020.", "005-normal": "Source / Reference Link: https://indianexpress.com/article/cities/chandigarh/students-education-loan-collateral-manohar-lal-khattar-6300549/"}}