{"search_data": "Central One Student One Tree Campaign \u2013 1 Million Trees in KV Schools Central govt. starts One Student One Tree Campaign to plant 1 million trees in Kendriya Vidyalaya (KVs) schools on 20 July 2019, each student to plant 1 sapling in their campusTable of Contents  One Student One Tree Campaign in KV SchoolsDelhi Govt. Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) Initiative to Save WaterHRD Ministry Deeksharambh ProgrammeOne Student One Tree Campaign in KV Schools1 Student 1 Tree initiative is in lines with PM Narendra Modi\u2019s idea of a green and healthy environment. The main aim of this One Student One Tree Campaign is to plant one million trees in KV schools across the nation.Delhi Govt. Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) Initiative to Save WaterDelhi government has also started Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) Initiative and is made mandatory in all schools affiliated to it. ZLD system proposal has been given consent by the state govt. and will start functioning soon. The state govt. of Delhi will take an initiative of 100% recycling of water in all of its schools. A 90 day time frame has already been given to schools to implement the system.The state govt. aims to save water by recycling and reusing it through the ZLD initiative. The system directs using wastewater for those activities for which freshwater is used in school compounds. To create awareness among students regarding the environment, Eco-Club was made few years back. As per the latest step towards the same direction, water being consumed in schools would be recycled.In line with the Prime Minister's vision for preserving the environment, we have launched a campaign \u2013 \"One Student One Tree\" that will motivate each Kendriya Vidyalaya student to plant a tree. pic.twitter.com/wWRMNx6fkE\u2014 Dr Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank (@DrRPNishank) July 20, 2019 HRD Ministry Deeksharambh ProgrammePreviously, the central govt. has released a guide to Student Induction Programme namely Deeksharambh. This scheme aims to help new students in making adjustment and feeling comfortable in the new environment. This would help them to inculcate the ethos and culture of the institution. Moreover, students would get assistance in Building bonds with other students and faculty members. This would provide them with an exposure to a sense of larger purpose and self exploration.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://www.indiatoday.in/education-today/news/story/hrd-minister-initiates-one-student-one-tree-campaign-in-kvs-1571924-2019-07-21  at  "}