{"search_data": "ManipurManipur School Fagat Hansi Mission to Improve Government SchoolsManipur govt. launches School Fagat Hansi Mission 2019 under Go to Village mission to improve and develop government schools as role models for students, classes from pre nursery to 10th would be available in all the schoolsManipur School Fagat Hansi MissionNow the govt. intends to put special focus on development of govt. schools in Manipur through School Fagat-Hansi Mission as economic condition of general public is not improving. Chief Minister N Biren Singh expressed hope that new mission is going to garner trust of people towards govt. schools. Now all the model schools will comprise of classes from pre-nursery to class 10th. Moreover, no govt. teachers would be transferred from these model schools for at-least 3 years to maintain stability in teaching manpower.Manipur CM urges involvement and cooperation of local people, educationists, local club members and Meira Paibee leaders in the scheme to make it a huge success. In addition to existing school mgmt. committees, selected schools are going to be managed by the re-defined managing committees which would be headed by circle MLAs concerned.In the previous year, Manipur govt. had announced incentive awards for meritorious students of govt. schools. These awards would be given to students who have secured positions in class 10th and 12th examinations conducted by Board of Secondary Education Manipur (BOSEM) and Council of Higher Secondary Education Manipur (COHSEM). Accordingly, Rs. 50 lakhs had been sanctioned by the State Planning dept. for early distribution of cash prizes to students.2. The SCHOOL FAGAT-HANSI Mission which is part of the \"GoToVillage\" Mission is emphasised on giving FREE & QUALITY EDUCATION at Govt. schools all over the State, producing disciplined, brilliant and highly qualified students from these schools, for a bright future of the State. pic.twitter.com/8kottKeHFX\u2014 Nongthombam Biren (@NBirenSingh) January 18, 20191. After the successful launching and implimentation of \"GoToHills\" and \"GoToVillage\" Missions of the State Government, SCHOOL FAGAT-HANSI (GoToSchools) Mission is formally launched today at Yumnam Huidrom High School, Wangoi AC, Imphal West district. pic.twitter.com/63mPCF9L28\u2014 Nongthombam Biren (@NBirenSingh) January 18, 2019CM said that in addition to provide free education under Right to Education (RTE), the state govt. had recently launched Lairik Tamhansi which signifies no children to be left behind. In this scheme, all the school dropouts are readmitted in government schools.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}