{"search_data": "TelanganaTelangana Aasara Pensions Scheme \u2013 Pension Amount Doubled for All Beneficiaries Pension amount for old age, widow, disabled & all category beneficiaries doubled under Telangana Aasara Pensions Scheme 2019, check detailsTable of Contents  Telangana Aasara Pension Amount Doubled for All CategoriesTelangana Aasara Pensions Scheme Exclusion ListTelangana Aasara Pension Yojana 2019Telangana Aasara Pension Amount Doubled for All CategoriesBeneficiaries under the categories of old-age, widow, weavers, toddy tappers, persons with HIV-AIDS, beedi workers, single women, self employed artisans, hawkers, vendors engaged on petty business and filaria patients who are getting monthly pension of Rs 1,000 will now receive Rs 2,016 per month. Similarly, differently-abled persons who are getting Rs. 1,500 per month will get a hiked pension of Rs 3,016 from July onward. CM KCR of Telangana has doubled Aasara pension amount for all category of beneficiaries.Currently, around 39,32,302 persons are getting benefitted under the Aasara pension scheme in Telangana. Due to revised age limit for old-age pensioners and higher pensions amount under Aasara Pensions, the number of beneficiaries is likely to increase by another 7 lakh.The state govt. is likely to bear a financial burden of Rs. 12,000 crore. For this purpose, Telangana govt. has already made an allocation of Rs. 12,607 crore in its budget during February 2019.Telangana Aasara Pension Amount DoubledTelangana Aasara Pensions Scheme Exclusion ListThe persons belonging to the households fulfilling 1 or more of the following condition\u2019s listed below shall not be eligible for Social Security Pensions (Aasara Pensions Scheme) in Telangana:-Having land more than 3.0 acres wet / irrigated dry or 7.5 acres dry.Having children who are Government / Public sector / Private sector employment / Out-sourced / contract.People having children who are doctors, contractors, professionals and self employed.Having large business enterprise (oil mills, rice mills, pumps, rig owners, shop owners etc.)People who are already receiving Government pensions or freedom fighter pensions.Owners of light and/or heavy automobiles (four wheelers and big vehicles).Any other criterion in which the verification officer may assess by the manner of lifestyle, occupation and possession of assets rendering the household as ineligible.Annual household income is more than Rs. 1.50 lakhs in rural areas and Rs. 2 lakhs in urban areas.Telangana Aasara Pension Yojana 2019\u2014 Government Order 17 for Aasara Pensions Implementation \u2013 Telangana Aasara Pensions Scheme Compressed \u2014 Government Order 23 for Aasara Pension Amendment \u2013 Telangana Aasara Pension Yojana Amendment \u2014 For complete details, visit the official website at aasara.telangana.gov.in  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: aasara.telangana.gov.in, https://telanganatoday.com/telangana-aasara-pensions-doubled  at  "}