{"search_data": "HaryanaHaryana Udhyam Memorandum (H.U.M) Portal \u2013 Enterprise Registration & Login for UIDHaryana Udhyam Memorandum (H.U.M) Portal enterprises registration / application form at harudhyam.edisha.gov.in, login & apply online for unique HUM ID for all enterprises like shops, MSMEs, large & mega industriesTable of Contents  Haryana Udhyam Memorandum (HUM) PortalEnterprise User Registration Form / LoginUnique H.U.M Number (ID) to IndustriesDatabase of Industry & Employees at Haryana Udyam Memorandum PortalIntegration with HEPC & Labour Dept. PortalAccess to Saksham Yuva Portal to Registered EnterprisesHelpline Number / E-Mail ID / ReferencesHaryana Udhyam Memorandum (HUM) PortalHaryana Udhyam Memorandum is a unique initiative of the state government to provide UID to all enterprises whether large, medium, small, micro level. HUM portal is developed with joint collaboration of Citizen Resource Information Department (CRID), Industries & Commerce department and Labour department. To get unique H.U.M number, every industry must apply online & fill enterprises registration / application form at H.U.M portal as mentioned below.Enterprise User Registration Form / LoginBelow is the complete process to fill Enterprise User Registration Form and Login:-Firstly visit the official website at harudhyam.edisha.gov.inAt the homepage, click at the \u201cSign Up As Enterprise User\u201d tab under \u2018Account Login\u2019 section.Afterwards, the Create Enterprise Level User Sign Up page will appear as shown below:-Haryana Udhyam Memorandum Portal Enterprise Registration FormHere select user type (enterprise level), user name (as per Aadhaar), aadhar number, designation, mobile no, e-mail address, authorized person and click at the \u201cSave & Continue\u201d button to complete the registration process.Finally, candidates can make login as enterprise user using the mobile number and click at the \u201cGet OTP\u201d button on the homepage as shown below:-HUM Portal Enterprise User LoginThen applicants can fill the enterprise online application form at the Haryana Udhyam Memorandum portal.Unique H.U.M Number (ID) to IndustriesA unique H.U.M number would be issued to every industry which makes registration on this harudhyam.edisha.gov.in portal. It is a user friendly portal and for registration, the industries are required to fill up basic details. All the registered enterprises would also have to upload the basic details of their employees engaged in the enterprises.Launched the Haryana Udhyam Memorandum Portal today, a unique initiative to bring all industries \u2013 micro, small, medium and large enterprises registered in Haryana on a single platform. pic.twitter.com/UvSk3qJNrM\u2014 Manohar Lal (@mlkhattar) June 5, 2020 Database of Industry & Employees at Haryana Udyam Memorandum PortalHaryana Udyam Memorandum Portal will help in creating a complete database of all types of industries registered in Haryana as well as employees working in it. The created database will help the Haryana govt. in formulating welfare policies in the upcoming times.CM Shri @mlkhattar launching the Haryana Udhyam Memorandum Web Portal at Chandigarh today. pic.twitter.com/QrusNOuuJp\u2014 CMO Haryana (@cmohry) June 5, 2020 Integration with HEPC & Labour Dept. PortalChief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has given directions that Haryana Enterprises Promotion Centre (HEPC) portal and portal of Labour Department should also be integrated with HUM portal. Accordingly, H.U.M ID will be made mandatory for all applications in respect of service provided on the HEPC portal or by Labour Department on their portal.Access to Saksham Yuva Portal to Registered EnterprisesAll the industries which made registration on the H.UM. Portal should also be provided access to the \u201cSaksham Yuva Portal\u201d of the state government. It would enable industries to hire candidates as per the industry requirements. The youths of the Haryana state will get maximum employment opportunities with this initiative. The Chief Minister directed that SMS should be sent at the earliest to all about 50,000 employees of different industries in the State who have sought permission for movement to other States during Covid-19 to enable them to register themselves on the H.U.M portal.Helpline Number / E-Mail ID / ReferencesIn case of any query or information, one can contact the helpline number (toll free) at 1800-200-0023. Users can even send an email at crid-hry@hry.gov.in. The other useful links are as follows:-A) Haryana Udhyam Memorandum (HUM) User Manual \u2013 Click HereB) Haryana Udhyam Memorandum (H.U.M) Standard Operating Procedure 2020 \u2013 Click HereC) National Industrial Classification Code (All Economic Activities) \u2013 Click HereFor more details, visit the official website at http://harudhyam.edisha.gov.in/  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://prharyana.gov.in/en/haryana-chief-minister-mr-manohar-lal-today-launched-haryana-udhyam-memorandum-hum-portal-with-an  at  "}