{"search_data": "Central Junior Target Olympic Podium Scheme (J-TOPS) 2020-2021 by Central Govt.Junior Target Olympic Podium Scheme (J-TOPS) 2020-2021 to start, Sports to be promoted to enable India to win medals at 2024, 2028 Olympics, talented athletes to be identifiedJunior Target Olympic Podium Scheme (J-TOPS) 2020-21From this year onward, the central govt. will start Junior Target Olympic Podium Scheme 2020-21. Under the Junior TOPS Scheme, govt. will fund junior athletes in the age group of 12, 13, 14 and 15 years. Parents will not have to worry for their children who are interested in sports. In case the youngster is talented, then the govt. will take care of that child. This announcement is made by Kiren Rijiju during book launch event of \u201cDreams of a Billion \u2013 India and the Olympic Games\u201d written by Boria Majumdar and Nalin Mehta.Both the People of India and Central govt. will have to change their way of looking and taking of sports. Indians will have to change their mindsets towards games if the country wants to become a sports powerhouse. Sports is one thing which is reflected in people action. People can just simply blame any one for India not being able to perform in Olympics. No matter how hard we try, if we are unable to change mindset of people then it would be difficult.India needs to change its mindset to become sporting powerhouse. India needs to compete and perform across various sports to be there at the top of the medal tally. The size of India is not suitable for only 3 to 4 medals. India should be talking about figuring in top 10 in 2028 Olympics. The central govt. emphasizes on the need to promote sports among school children and at the university level. Khelo India School Games and Khelo India Youth Games are such an initiative to promote sporting culture in the society.We have a School Games Federation in India but we never had School Games. Central govt. is going to bring structural changes in sports to bring revolutionary effect. Khelo India University Games have been started where govt. can identify talented athletes as most of the champions comes from universities.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/more-sports/others/government-set-to-start-junior-target-olympic-podium-scheme-from-this-year/articleshow/74231692.cms  at  "}