{"search_data": "Central PM Nal Se Jal Scheme to Provide Piped Water Supply to All \u2013 Jal Jivan Mission PM Nal Se Jal Scheme 2019 to launch under Jal Jivan Mission for water conservation & provide water supply to households through pipelines and taps, Jal Shakti Ministry formed by Modi govt.Table of Contents  PM Nal Se Jal Scheme 2019 \u2013 Jal Jivan MissionNiti Aayog Meet Israel Officials \u2013 Jal Shakti MinistryRising Demand for WaterPM Nal Se Jal Scheme 2019 \u2013 Jal Jivan MissionAs per the official reports, the new Jal Shakti Ministry would include Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation and Ministry of Drinking Water & Sanitation. Under this PM Nal Se Jal Scheme (Jal Jivan Mission), the central govt. will provide water to each family through pipe lines and taps till FY 2024.Niti Aayog Meet Israel Officials \u2013 Jal Shakti MinistryThe first task for the Jal Shakti Ministry is to conserve water resources. For this purpose, the central govt. will take help of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA). Previously to preserve water resources, various Indian and Israeli officials have already met in the past few months.In Israel, all the households are already getting pure water supply through pipelines and taps. In India, around 45 of water is used for drinking purpose in households and 80% is used in farming.Rising Demand for WaterAs per an estimate of Niti Aayog, the requirement for water supply is going to double till FY 2030 in India. Around 60 crore people of India are facing acute shortage of water. Due to unavailability of pure drinking water, around 2 lakh die every year in India. It is believed that the demand for water will double till FY 2030 and it this demand is not met, then there would be crash of 6% in GDP of India. So to tackle this issue, PM Modi is laying emphasis on conserving water.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://www.insightsonindia.com/2019/06/03/jal-shaktimunistry/  at  "}