{"search_data": "CentralAadhar Payment App \u201cAadhar Pay\u201d \u2013 Digital Transaction App for MerchantsHow to Use Aadhar Payment AppAadhar Payment app can be used by any merchant with little literacy or knowledge of using a smartphone application. The Aadhar Pay application first needs to be downloaded on the Android smartphone which is connected to a biometric scan machine. The biometric scan machine is available at a cost of Rs. 2000.After downloading the Aadhar Payment app, merchants would be required to register themselves on the app and connect their bank accounts where they want to receive payments from customers.Receive Payment using Aadhar Payment AppMerchants can receive payments from customers using the app, following are the steps to receive payments using Aadhar Pay AppMake sure the smartphone app is connected to the biometric scan and data connection is \u201cON\u201d in your smartphone.Enter the Aadhar Number of customer from whom payments is to be received.In the next step, Aadhar pay app will display the list of bank accounts which are linked with the Aadhar number of customer.Then, customer needs to select the bank account from the list as per his choice and proceed to next step.Merchant would need to enter the amount to be charged to the customer.In the next step, app will ask for biometric scan input of customer. The biometric scan would work as the transaction password.If the biometric scan is matched with the one with UIADI and there is enough balance in selected bank account, the amount will be transferred to bank account of merchant.If Aadhar is not linked with the customer\u2019s account, then payment using this app would not be possible.Download Aadhar Payment AppAadhar Payment app \u201cAadhar Pay\u201d for merchants can be downloaded from the Google Play store on android smartphone. The link to download the Aadhar Payment app would be available once the app is officially launched.Alternatively, the app can also be searched directly in the play store app in android smartphone and downloaded instantly from there.Why Aadhar Payment AppOne of the biggest reasons of introducing the \u201cAadhar Payment App\u201d is to encourage the merchants to receive payments through digital modes of transaction. The app would eliminate the long waiting period, fee and charges, and hassle of getting a PoS (Point of Sale) machines.Among a total of about 5 Crore merchants in the country, the banks have distributed just about 15 Lakh PoS machines till now. Out of all, about 3 Lakh has been distributed by State Bank of India followed by HDFC and ICICI bank.Not just the merchants, Aadhar Payment app would also be beneficial for consumers. The consumers who have their Aadhar number seeded with their bank accounts would not require even a phone to do the transaction. Their Aadhar number and a biometric scan would be enough to pay to the merchants. Customers would also need not to remember the confusing sets of passwords to make the transactions.The app would also eliminate the theft/hack of passwords or credit/debit card PIN completely.Find more details about Aadhar Payment AppNote: The information on this page is tentative as the app is not launched yet.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}