{"search_data": "CentralBeti Bachao Beti Padhao Scheme \u2013 BBBP Pan India Expansion by PM Narendra ModiTable of Contents  Beti Bachao Beti Padhao Scheme BenefitsPan India Expansion of Beti Bachao Beti Padhao SchemeBeti Bachao Beti Padhao Scheme Guidelines \u2013 Expansion StrategiesReferencesBeti Bachao Beti Padhao Scheme BenefitsThe important features and Beti Bachao Beti Padhao Scheme Benefits as specified by PM are as follows:-PM Modi stressed that there should be no discrimination on the basis of gender.In addition, people must know the importance of girls access to quality education just like boys.Daughter is not a burden on the family but brings pride and glory for their community, state and to the entire country.People must run Beti Bachao Beti Padhao Scheme in the form of Jan Andolan to make it a huge success.From continuous efforts of central govt., BBBP scheme has changed the attitude and viewpoint of people towards girl child. Accordingly, the ratio of girls to boys (Sex Ratio) across the country is now above 900 (per 1000 boys).Central govt. has also taken other initiatives for women empowerment like successful implementation of BBBP in 161 districts, 6 months maternity leave for working women, training of women sarpanches, universal implementation of Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana Yojana.Narendra Modi Schemes WomenMoreover govt. has set-up 200 Sakhi Centres for violence affected women, shelter homes for widows, forensic lab for speedy forensic processing in case of rape. Furthermore, govt. is also going to bring an historic Bill against trafficking of women & children in this parliament session. To see complete list of schemes launched by PM Modi, please click the link \u2013 List of All Central Govt. Schemes for WomenPan India Expansion of Beti Bachao Beti Padhao SchemePM Modi has chosen Jhunjhunu, Rajasthan for all India expansion of BBBP Scheme. Rajasthan govt. is providing education to all the girls and is also distributing laptops, scooters and cycles. All these initiatives will encourage parents to send their girl child to education institutions. Moreover, govt. and general public has also taken other initiatives like planting trees at birth of the girl child and appointing girls as their brand ambassadors.At the mega event of expansion of BBBP Scheme, PM Modi has also given awards to the winners of Beti Bachao Beti Padhao Logo Contest and Logo for National Nutrition Mission. Moreover, PM has also released Photo Journey Book to show the innovative and successful initiatives by the districts. PM has also interacted with 200 girls born in Rajasthan after official launch of scheme i.e January 2015. This was a symbolic way to represent that how BBBP Scheme has changed attitude of society towards girls.PM has also given awards to 10 districts for their contribution in the below categories:- List of Awarded DIstrictsCategoryDistrict NameEffective community engangementRaigarh (Chattisgarh), Sikar (Rajasthan), Bijapur (Karnataka), North Sikkim (Sikkim), Tarantaran (Punjab), Hyderabad (Telengana)Enforcement of PC&PNDT ActSonipat (Haryana), Ahmedabad (Gujarat)Enabling education of Girl ChildJhunjhunu (Rajasthan), Udhampur (Jammu & Kashmir)Health Management Information System (HMIS) data suggests that there is an improvement in sex ratio at the time of birth. Sex Ratio at Birth (SRB) in 2014-15 was 918 which has increased to 926 in 2016-17. These encouraging results are due to active participation of States and districts. Subsequently, Central govt. has decided to go pan India and extend the BBBP programme to all districts. Central govt. has set the total outlay of BBBP scheme to Rs. 1132.5 Crore for duration of 2017-18 to 2019-20.Beti Bachao Beti Padhao Scheme Guidelines \u2013 Expansion StrategiesInitially, govt. has launched this scheme in those districts which are either below National Average or were worse in terms of value of CSR. However this problem is critical and much greater in magnitude, so govt. has decided to expand this scheme to  the entire country. This will lead to an increase in CSR and govt. will adopt following strategies under Pan India Expansion:- Expansion Strategies for Pan India Expansion of BBBP SchemeS. NoStrategiesExpansion1Multi Sectoral Intervention : Under the supervision of DCs / DMs, govt. will focus on concurrent action between WCD, Health & Education to keep a check on changing attitude through local level community engagements, providing training to several functionaries and community members, efficient implementation of PC&PNDT Act, special focus on education of girl child and engagement of local champions in each district244 districts with existing 161 districts2Issuing Alerts to district media and advocacy through 360 degree approach, focus on reinforcement of girls, local level community engagement235 districtsTotal640 districtsReferences\u2014 For any query, candidates can see the helpline numbers of all govt. schemes \u2013 Toll Free Numbers \u2014 Furthermore for more details on Pan India Expansion of BBBP Scheme, please click the link \u2013 Beti Bachao Beti Padhao and National Nutrition Mission Details  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}