{"search_data": "West BengalBangla Gramin Abas Yojana \u2013 5 Lakh Houses for Poor People in West BengalBangla Gramin Abas YojanaAt the inauguration function of \u201cMati Utsav\u201d which is a soil festival to promote farm sector, Cm made this announcement. Under this housing scheme, all the people belonging to the poor and economically weaker sections of the rural areas will get houses.The state govt. of WB will provide these houses to the 5 lakh economically weaker and homeless families on 29 January 2018 across various districts under Bangla Gramin Awas Yojana. Moreover, people having their own plot will also receive financial assistance for purpose of construction of houses under \u201cNijo Bhumi Nijo Griha\u201d scheme.Under this Banglar Bari Scheme, people living below the poverty line in various municipalities will get immense help. State Urban Development Agency (SUDA) will construct these flats for the poor people. Moreover, women run families (headed by women) and financially weaker ones, whose family income from all sources is less than Rs. 10,000 p.m will get priority.Other Welfare ActivitiesState govt. is also continuing various other welfare activities for the welfare of the citizens which are as follows:-WB govt. has returned the land which was taken away forcibly in Singur to its owners. Owners now harvest golden paddy on these lands.Subsequently, govt. also insures about 21 lakh hectares of agricultural land under the insurance scheme.In addition to this, govt. will provide bravery awards to the girls who have foiled around 120 child marriages under Kanyashree Prakalpa.Moreover, the state govt. is going to provide compensation of Rs. 1200 crore to 30 lakh farmers and households which get affected through recent floods.Govt. also distributes approx. 79 lakh Kisan Credit Cards (KCC) to the farmers.Furthermore, state govt. will also provide Rs. 2,768 crore to bring more crop area under irrigation.Furthermore, people will receive assistance for building pucca houses in urban areas Geetanjali scheme.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}