{"search_data": "Central Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana Account \u2013 Benefits / Rules / Form at pmjdy.gov.inTable of Contents  Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana Form \u2013 Account OpeningList of Documents to Open Jan Dhan Yojana AccountJan Dhan Yojana RulesJan Dhan Yojana BenefitsReferencesPradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana Form \u2013 Account OpeningAll the interested individuals who wishes to open their personal savings account can download this application form. PM Jan Dhan Yojna Form must be dully filled and submitted along with necessary documents. In case the officially valid documents are not present, then poor people can open their small account. To download the application form in pdf format, click the link given below:- PM Jan Dhan Yojana Form (PDF) \u2013 English PM Jan Dhan Yojana Form (PDF) \u2013 HindiAccordingly, Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana Account Opening Form will appear as follows:-Jan Dhan Yojana FormFill in all the necessary details along with the nominee details. People can avail nomination facility at the time of account opening.Finally, candidates can submit this form along with necessary documents to open their zero balance account.Jan Dhan Yojana Loan Apply \u2013 People can apply for Loan in SBI / ICICI / HDFC / Axis and other nationalized banks through the link \u2013 Jan Dhan Yojana LoanList of Documents to Open Jan Dhan Yojana AccountAll the documents given below are officially valid documents. Candidates can submit any one of these documents along with their recent photographs and filled application form to open PMJDY Account. Documents for Opening Jan Dhan Yojana Account \u2013Any One of the Following Documents For Account OpeningPassportDriving Licence (DL)Permanent Account Number (PAN)Aadhaar Card or Letter from UIDAI containing Name, Aadhar Number and AddressMNREGA Job Card with signature of state govt. officerVoter Id CardAny other document notified by central govt. in consultation with regulator.To verify a person\u2019s identity, identity card issued by state / central govt. departments, statutory or regulatory authorities, PSUs, Scheduled Commercial Banks, Public Financial Institutions and Letter Issued by Gazetted Officer can be treated as valid documents.Jan Dhan Yojana RulesJan Dhan Yojana Account can be opened with 0 balance. But to avail facilities like cheque book, people have to maintain minimum balance. As per RBI notification, all the people who does not possess officially valid documents can open \u201cSmall Accounts\u201d with banks. For this, poor people needs to provide self attested photograph along with his signature / thumb impression in the presence of bank officials.People must follow Jan Dhan Yojana Rules for Small Account which are as follows:-People cannot deposit more than 1 lakh rupees in their account in a single year.The maximum amount that can be withdrawan from a jan dhan account is Rs. 10,000 per month.Maximum balance in Jan Dhan Accounts can never be more than Rs. 50,000 at a single point of time.Such account remain valid for 1 year or 12 months. These accounts will get continued for another 1 year in case the account holder submits a document as a proof that he has already applied for officially valid document within the first 1 year of opening small account.Jan Dhan Yojana BenefitsThere are certain special benefits under PMJDY Scheme which are as follows:-Jan Dhan Yojana Account provides Interest on Deposits.People will also get an accidental insurance cover of Rs. 1 Lakh.Initial deposit and Maintaining balance is zero in this account.All the account holders will get life cover of Rs. 30,000 payable at death of beneficiary.This yojana account provides facility of easy transfer of money across the country.People will get benefits of various government schemes directly through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) in this account.All the candidates who have successfully operated their account for 6 months will become eligible for Overdraft facility up to Rs. 5000.People will get access to pension and other insurance products.References\u2014 In case of further query, please call National Toll Free Number: 1800-11-0001 or 1800-180-1111. \u2014 For more details on Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana, please visit the official website pmjdy.gov.in  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}