{"search_data": "DelhiDelhi Grocery / Milk / Medicine Shop Registration For Curfew Passes of Coronavirus [COVID 19]Delhi govt. Coronavirus Lockdown E-Passes registration for Kiryana / milk / chemist shop, apply for curfew pass at DM office / Whatsapp Helpline no., grocery, milk sellers, vegetable vendors, medicine, private employee can fill application formTable of Contents  Delhi Coronavirus Lockdown E-Passes Registration at Whatsapp / DM OfficesWhom COVID 19 Curfew E-Pass will HelpDelhi Helpline Number for Police HarassmentDelhi Coronavirus Lockdown E-Passes Registration at Whatsapp / DM OfficesDelhi govt. is issuing e-passes in the interest of vegetable vendors, grocers and milk-sellers. These passes will ensure smooth supply of daily use items in the national capital during the 21-day lockdown implemented to stop the spread of the coronavirus. The nation-wide COVID 19 lockdown period is all set to last until 15 April 2020. Delhi Coronavirus (COVID 19) lockdown e-passes registration can be issued through Whatsapp and details of which would be provided on helpline number 1031 or at district magistrate offices.CM also clarified that public doesn\u2019t need curfew passes to go to nearest grocery stores. In order to avoid panic buying, CM assured that govt. will ensure that shops selling milk, vegetables, grocery items and medicines will remain open. CM also asserted that there is no scarcity of the essential commodities.Whom COVID 19 Curfew E-Pass will HelpThe state govt. of Delhi had received feedback of various cases from private firms, ration shops and even media personnel. All such persons were being stopped by policemen on the roads and an e-pass will help in such situations. These e-pass will ensure transparency and enhance essential services are commuting during lockdown. Many people especially many milk plant owners who does not have valid ID card will now get e-pass issued.All Delhi residents who are stranded outside the city for any reason would be allowed to enter production of any valid ID or residence proof upon showing their address. People coming from outside can apply for e-pass through Whatsapp on authorized mobile numbers or e-mail ID at ddma.delhi@nic.in. Such people needs to provide their particulars alond with their relevant documents. All such e-pass shall be received on same Whatsapp or email of applicants.Delhi Helpline Number for Police HarassmentCM Arvind Kejriwal has also released helpline number 011-22459536 to bring to its notice if anyone is harassed or ill-treated by the police during the 21-day lockdown. Moreover, govt. has setup 24\u00d77 control room at the office of the Divisional Commissioner in Delhi and also at all the DM offices. An ACP rank officer will be available at control rooms at all times to ensure proper liaison with the offices of district magistrates on real-time basis.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-10-lockdown-delhi-introduces-colour-coded-e-passes-for-essential-services/story-QYNmLwPO4ttXzTveDcPcHN.html  at  "}