{"search_data": "Central Central Govt. Approves Atal Innovation Mission (AIM) to Continue till 2019-2020 Central govt. approves Atal Innovation Mission (AIM) to continue till 2019-2020 with expenditure upto Rs. 1000 cr, Atal Tinkering Labs expansion to 10,000 schoolsTable of Contents  Atal Innovation Mission (AIM) Financial ImplicationsAtal Innovation Mission (AIM) Continuation ImpactAIM Implementation Strategy and TargetsAtal Innovation Mission (AIM) Financial ImplicationsThe financial implications of Atal Innovation Mission (AIM) are as follows:-Every ATL across the country will receive a grant in aid of Rs. 12 lakhs in 1st year. For 4 subsequent years, ATL will receive grant in aid upto Rs. 2 lakh per year. This amount would be given for maintenance of the ATL equipment and operational expenses.Each selected AIC will get grant in aid upto Rs. 10 crore over 3-5 years in tranches per year. This amount would be provided on the basis of review and evidence of planned milestones reached.Under ANIC, all the innovators will receive commercialization and technology deployment grants upto Rs. 1 crore.The Atal Innovation Mission (AIM) is a flagship initiative setup by the NITI Aayog. The main objective of AIM is to promote innovation and entrepreneurship across the length and breadth of the country.Atal Innovation Mission (AIM) Continuation ImpactThe major impact after the decision of continuing Atal Innovation Mission (AIM) are as follows:-AIM has undertaken many bold and future based initiatives such as Atal Tinkering Labs (ATL) and Atal Incubation Centres (AIC) which have received great acknowledgement.Many ministries / departments of Union govt. of India have started innovation related activities with the help and technical support of AIM.Under ATL program, it is expected that over 10,000 schools would establish these labs by 2020.In addition to this, over 100 Atal Incubation Centers (AICs) would be established across the country. These AICs will support at-least 50-60 startups each for the first 5 years.Over 100 innovators / startups would receive support to promote their innovations. Each incubator will foster around 50-60 technology driven innovative Startups every 4 years.The potential for generating job opportunities from these innovations driven Startups is quite high.For more details, visit the official website \u2013 aim.gov.inAIM Implementation Strategy and TargetsThe implementation strategy and targets of Atal Innovation Mission can be checked directly through the official website of Press Information Bureau (PIB) of India through the link:- http://pib.nic.in/PressReleseDetail.aspx?PRID=1567803The primary objective of AIM is to create and promote an ecosystem of innovation and entrepreneurship across the country at school, university, research institutions, MSME and industry levels.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}