{"search_data": "PunjabApply Online for 2 Residential Housing Schemes in Batala & Bathinda by Punjab Govt.Punjab govt. will invite online application forms for 2 residential schemes in Batala and Bathinda on the occasion of Navratras at adaamritsar.gov.in, Amritsar development authority will start online registrations for allotment of 214 residential plots with allotment price of Rs. 9,990 from 10 October to 9 November 20182 Residential Schemes in Batala & Bathinda of Punjab \u2013 Apply OnlinePunjab govt. will launch 2 residential schemes in Batala and Bathida on the auspicious occasion of Navratas. Candidates would get an option to submit applications online where the applicants need to visit adaamritsar.gov.in and the applicant will have to make payment through RTGS/NEFT. The draw of lots to allot plots to the selected applicants of residential schemes shall be held on 11 December 2018. The complete details of 2 residential schemes are as follows:-First scheme \u2013 Amritsar development authority will launch the scheme to invite applications for allotment of 140 residential plots at new Urban Estate, Batala in Gurdaspur district. Under this scheme, allotment price has been fixed at Rs. 9,990 for which online applications will start on 10 October 2018 and close on 9 November 2018.Second scheme \u2013 The second scheme is to be launched for allotment of 74 residential plots in Bathinda.In both these schemes, govt. will give preference in allotment to the senior citizens and women applicants. The state govt. has included a provision of allotment under preferential category in the policy to provide social security to old age and women.Applicants will have to deposit 10 percent price of the plot as earnest money along with the application form. Candidates needs to pay the next installment of 15% within 30 days of issuance of letter of intent. The remaining 75% amount can to be paid by the allottee in lump-sum to avail rebate of 5% or otherwise in six equal half-yearly instalments with interest rate of 12% p.a.All allottees will get possession of plots within 90 days from the issuance of allotment letter.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}