{"search_data": "Central Interest Deduction on Housing Loans Raised to Rs. 3.5 Lakh for 1st Time Homebuyers Interest deduction on home loans raised by Rs. 1.5 lakh for 1st time homebuyers for house value upto Rs. 45 lakh, govt. increased tax deduction limit of Rs. 3.5 lakh on interest paid on housing loan to promote affordable housingInterest Deduction Limit on Home Loans Raised for Affordable HousingFM Nirmala Sitharaman said the interest paid on housing loans is currently allowed as a deduction to the extent of Rs. 2 lakh. The central govt. will now provide an additional deduction of upto Rs. 1.5 lakh for interest paid on home loans borrowed upto 31 March 2020. All the housing loans taken for purchase of affordable houses valued upto Rs. 45 lakh would be eligible for this tax deduction.To align affordable housing under Income Tax (IT) Act with GST Act, govt. has raised carpet area of houses. Now the limit of carpet area is increased from 30 sq.m to 60 sq.m in metropolitan regions. Accordingly in non-metropolitan regions, carpet area is raised from 60 sq.m to 90 sq.m. However, the cost of affordable house is fixed at Rs. 45 lakh and below.Now anyone purchasing an affordable house will be eligible for interest deduction of Rs. 3.5 lakh. This move is going to provide a benefit of around Rs. 7 lakh to middle class home buyers for a loan period of 15 years. In Union Budget 2019-20, it is clearly mentioned that interest deduction is only applicable when loan has been sanctioned in current fiscal year only.All the home buyers must not have any other residential property in their name on the date of sanction of loan  i.e they must be 1st time homebuyers. To realise the vision of \u201cHousing for All\u201d and \u201cAffordable Housing\u201d, govt. is already providing a tax holiday on the profits earned by developers of affordable housing.Finance Minister proposed that various reform measures would be taken to promote rental housing. The existing rental laws are old fashioned and does not address relationship b/w lessor and lessee realistically and fairly. A Model Tenancy Law is going to be finalised and circulated to the states.In another move, it is stated that the regulation of housing finance companies will now be done by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) instead of the National Housing Bank.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://www.ndtv.com/business/interest-deduction-on-home-loans-raised-to-rs-3-5-lakh-for-affordable-housing-2064804  at  "}