{"search_data": "UttarakhandU-Health Card Scheme \u2013 Insurance Cover in Uttarakhand for Govt. EmployeesTable of Contents  Revised U-Health Card Scheme \u2013 FeaturesComprehensive Health Insurance Scheme PremiumNeed for Revised U-Health Card Scheme in UttarakhandReferencesRevised U-Health Card Scheme \u2013 FeaturesThe important features and highlights of this scheme are as follows:-Employee Organization demands for inclusion of OPDs Fees in this Revised U-Health Card Insurance Scheme.All the representatives of employees will be included in the steering committee of Comprehensive Health Assurance Scheme.Under the U Health Card Scheme, all the cardholders along with their families will get unlimited cashless medical reimbursement in the empanelled hospitals.Revised U-Health Insurance Coverage will provide cashless benefits to all employees and pensioners in all empanelled govt. and private hospitals.Mismanagement and other payment issues will get resolved.Till date, there are only few empaneled hospitals in Uttarakhand. In addition, 2 more empanelled hospitals are located in National Capital Region (NCR) \u2013 Medanta Medicity Gurugram and National Heart Institute New Delhi. For all details like Bank Challan Form, Consent Forms, Deduction Head, Day Care Treatment of the existing U-Health Card Scheme \u2013 Click HereComprehensive Health Insurance Scheme PremiumUnder the revised scheme, the insurance premium rates will be finalised soon. Till then, we are providing the premium rates for the existing U-Health Card Scheme in Uttarakhand. All the state govt. employees are required to pay the following premium as mentioned in the table given below:- Uttarakhand U-Health Card Scheme Premium RatesGrade Pay (GP) of EmployeesAnnual PremiumGP > Rs. 6600Rs. 5000GP between Rs. 4200 to Rs. 5400Rs. 3500GP between Rs. 1900 to Rs. 2800Rs. 1500GP < Rs. 1800Rs. 700The employees hopes that the Revised Health Insurance Scheme would ensure that there are max number of private empaneled hospitals in the scheme.Need for Revised U-Health Card Scheme in UttarakhandVarious employees organizations are demanding for a comprehensive health insurance cover for all employees from a long period. The Existing U-health Card Scheme was optional for employees and was also not much attractive. So, govt. employees and hospitals stays away from this scheme.Now there is a demand of revision in the existing U-Health Card Scheme and to make it more attractive so as to empanel more number of hospitals in order to provide benefits to all staff.A delegation of Joint Forum of Employees met the Secretary of Health and Family Welfare and discussed the scheme. The state govt. will revise U-health Card Scheme & will launch this scheme on 15 August this year.References\u2014 Candidates can see the guidelines through the link \u2013 U-Health Card Guidelines \u2014 In case of any query, candidates can contact the U Health Cell \u2013 Contact Us \u2014 For more details, click at the official website \u2013 https://www.ukhfws.org/  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}