{"search_data": "DelhiHIV / AIDS Patients in Delhi to Get Double Financial Assistance (Rs. 2000 p.m)HIV / AIDS Patients in Delhi to get Double AssistanceAll the PLHAs in Delhi will now get double financial assistance for their Antiretroviral Treatment (ART) and extra nutrition. The financial assistance which would be provided to PLHAs is given below:-All HIV / AIDS Patients in Delhi will now get Rs. 2,000 per month.In case of HIV / AIDS infected orphan and destitute children who are infected with disease in institutional care will now get Rs. 4,100 from current Rs. 2050.For PLHAs falling under orphan children category will now get Rs. 3,500 instead of Rs. 1,750.As per the official data, there are a total number of 27,250 (till March 2018) PLHIV who are on ART in Delhi. There are 11 ART centers which are located in major government hospitals in Delhi being run under the National AIDS Control Programme (NACP).Age Restriction in Delhi Disability Pension Scheme (Viklang Pension) RemovedThe cabinet committee of Delhi chaired by CM Arvind Kejriwal has removed the age restriction on financial assistance to individuals with special needs. Earlier, when a person with special needs used to attain the age of 60 years, then pension was converted to old age pension. Now the age restriction has been removed under Delhi Disability Pension Scheme / Viklang Pension. The disability pension in Delhi will continue lifelong or until the conditions under which the assistance is granted no longer exist.Disabled people above 60 years of age will now not be categorized under Old Age Pension Scheme. They would continue to get an increased pension of Rs. 2500 per month under Delhi Disability Pension Scheme / Viklang pension. Till now, any person with disability from birth to 60 years with annual family income less Rs. 1,00,000 per annum was able to receive pension.Delhi Govt Disability Pension Age Restriction RemovedViklang Pension / Disability Pension Scheme in Delhi covers persons with blindness, low vision, locomotor disability, hearing impaired, leprosy cured, cerebral palsy, autism, mental retardation and mental illness. Moreover, the beneficiaries cannot avail the benefits of more than one scheme at a time among 3 schemes \u2013 Old Age Pension, Widow Pension, and Disability Pension.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}