{"search_data": "Central 12 Lakh Non-gazetted Railway Employees to Get Productivity Linked Bonus (PLB)Cabinet committee approved productivity linked bonus (PLB) to 12 lakh non-gazetted railway employees equivalent to 78 days wages for FY 2017-18 subject to max. amount of Rs. 17,951, total outlay for PLB payment is Rs. 2044 croreProductivity Linked Bonus (PLB) to Non-Gazetted Railway EmployeesInformation & Technology Minister, Ravi Shankar Prasad said that bonus equals to 78 days wages will be given to non-gazetted railway employees. As per the provisions of this proposal of Railway ministry, the maximum amount payable to each eligible railway employee is Rs. 17,951. Around 11.91 lakh non-gazetted railway employees are going to be benefited from this decision.The total payment for PLB has been estimated to Rs. 2044.31 crore and the wage calculation ceiling prescribed for payment of PLB to eligible non-gazetted railway employees is Rs. 7000 per month.Union cabinet meeting was presided over by the Prime Minister Sh. Narendra Modi and approved the following proposal of Railways ministry. PLB will be given to all the eligible non-gazetted railway employees for financial year 2017-18 but does not includes RPF and RSPF personnels who are spread over the entire country.The central govt. gives payment of PLB every year to railway employees before the Dusshera / Puja holidays. This decision of the cabinet committee is to be implemented before the holidays for this year as well. Now, the wages equivalent to 78 day wages will be paid to the employees to encourage them to work for the betterment of Indian Railways.Background of Productivity Linked Bonus (PLB)Railways are the first departmental undertaking of the Government of India, and the concept of PLB was introduced in FY 1979-80. This primary objective behind introduction of this concept was that the Railways serves as an infrastructural support in the performance of economy. PLB concept was desirable instead of previous concept of bonus on the lines of The Payment of Bonus Act \u2013 1965.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}