{"000-section": {"000-title": "How to Get Job as Ayushman Bharat Arogya Mitra \u2013 Eligibility Criteria & Details"}, "001-section": {"000-title": "Check the process of how to get Arogya Mitra job under Ayushman Bharat Yojana in any empanelled hospital with Rs. 15,000 salary, check eligibility criteria for 1,00,000 Ayushman Mitra vacancy, recruitment process, guidelines & other details", "001-normal": "Table of Contents", "002-listElement": "- Ayushman Bharat Arogya Mitra Job / Salary", "003-listElement": "- Arogya Mitra Eligibility Criteria", "004-listElement": "- Who will Carry Recruitment Drive for Ayushman Bharat Arogya Mitra", "005-listElement": "- Guidelines for Arogya Mitra Recruitment"}, "002-section": {"000-title": "Ayushman Bharat Arogya Mitra Job / Salary", "001-normal": "Beneficiaries can check their names, go to any of the [PMJAY empanelled hospital](https://sarkariyojana.com/pmjay-list-hospitals-ayushman-bharat/) carrying their one identity proof (ration card or voter card or ayushman family card or aadhaar card) to verify their identity and can avail cashless treatment. After going to the hospitals, people can meet the person at the helpdesk which is named as Arogya Mitra. These Arogya Mitras are specially appointed persons who are present in every empanelled hospitals to assist people in getting cashless and paperless treatment. These employees have complete knowledge about the Ayushman Bharat Yojana, treatment procedures, package rates and also helps people in their claim settlement process.", "002-normal": "While launching the scheme, the central govt. has focused on designing a support system to assist beneficiaries at Empanelled Health Care Provider (EHCP). To streamline the entire process of health service delivery and provide a seamless experience to the [Ayushman Bharat Yojana beneficiaries](https://sarkariyojana.com/check-name-pm-jan-arogya-yojana-final-beneficiaries-list-mera-pmjay-gov/), Arogya Mitra have been placed at each EHCP. We must tell you that all those people who are interested in becoming an Arogya Mitra with Rs. 15,000 salary can directly contact the empanelled hospitals under the Ayushman Bharat Scheme in which they want to get a job and assist people."}, "003-section": {"000-title": "Arogya Mitra Eligibility Criteria", "001-normal": "An Arogya Mitra / Ayushman Mitra (AM) is a certified frontline health service professional who shall be present at each of the EHCP and shall serve as a first contact point for beneficiaries. Below is the complete eligibility criteria to get selected as an Arogya Mitra:-", "002-listElement": "- He / She must have completed 12th (10+2) from a recognized institution.", "003-listElement": "- Candidate must possess basic proficiency in computer operations.", "004-listElement": "- Must have completed Ayushman Mitra Training Course and passed the respective course exam / certification.", "005-listElement": "- Candidates must possess fluent communication skills in Hindi / English and local language of the state or region.", "006-listElement": "- Applicant must have adequate functional computer literacy which includes understanding of Microsoft Office Suite and navigating through internet portals.", "007-normal": "The central govt. has made a provision in which preference will be given to the female candidates for the position of Ayushman Mitra. All the qualified ASHA workers may be given preference for the position of AM. The existing staff of govt. hospitals can also be nominated to act as Ayushman Mitra by the state government."}, "004-section": {"000-title": "Who will Carry Recruitment Drive for Ayushman Bharat Arogya Mitra", "001-normal": "Here we will give you the information about the agencies who will carry out the recruitment drive for Arogya Mitras:-", "002-listElement": "- The State Health Agency (SHA) has the flexibility to recruit Arogya Mitra through 3rd party agency or any other mechanism for public facilities. The SHA will pay the salaries to the Ayushman Mitras thorugh 3rd party agencies. If extra AMs are recruited, then SHA / selected agency can scale up its capacity and provide the necessary number of AMs.", "003-listElement": "- SHA have the authority to directly hire the AMs at state / district or at hospital level.", "004-listElement": "- In case the state govt. requires more AMs, then they can even nominate the existing staff of public hospitals as AM.", "005-listElement": "- For private EHCP, the recruitment and placement of Arogya Mitra would be done by the health care provider itself. Private EHCP will have to bear the cost of AM in that facility.", "006-normal": "AMs will be placed at every public EHCP and the exact numbers of AMs to be placed will depend on the number of average cases load in a single day. In case there are 0 to 10 cases, then 1 AM will be required. For 10 to 20 cases in single day, 2 AMs would be required, for 20 to 30 cases, 3 AMs would be required and for more than 30 cases there would be 4 AMs. An Arogya Mitra may be hired for initially a period of 1 year and their contract can be renewed yearly on the basis of performance."}, "005-section": {"000-title": "Guidelines for Arogya Mitra Recruitment", "001-normal": "All the Arogya Mitras can also check the responsibilities to be performed at the help desk / kiosk, training details and other benefits to Ayushman Mitras. To check the guidelines for recruitment of Arogya Mitra, please click the link given below:-  \n [Guidelines for Ayushman Mitras](https://www.pmjay.gov.in/sites/default/files/2018-08/Guidelines_Ayushman%20Mitra_AB-NHPM_final%2009082018.pdf)", "002-normal": "All the candidates must fulfill the following conditions mentioned in the guidelines before applying for this job."}}