{"search_data": "Central CBSE to Adopt New Exams Pattern (Question Paper) for Class 10th & 12th from 2020CBSE New Exam Pattern (Question Paper) for Class 10th & 12thNew Question Papers under the proposed examination pattern for Class X & XII will be more problem solving and analytical. These questions will focus on measuring the critical thinking ability of students. There will be more short questions of 1 marks to 5 marks in which students needs to provide specific (point to point) answers.There are various changes even in the examination schedule. As per the MHRD Sources, CBSE is likely to schedule the Board Examinations of Class 10th & 12th in 2 parts \u2013 Vocational & Non-Vocational subjects. The exams for Vocational Subjects where the number of students is lower will be held in the month of February.The Main (Non-Vocational) subjects exam will be completed in around 15 days in the month of March itself. This will give more time for evaluation and to declare the results earlier.CBSE By-Laws (New) for AffiliationThe board has already submitted New CBSE By-Laws to the ministry for approval. Now the focus during affiliation / renewal of schools will be on academic quality. For infrastructure inspection in schools, reports of the recognizing authorities will be taken into consideration including respective state education departments. These proposals will take another 3 to 4 months to crystallize. However, CBSE is already working towards making changes in pattern of questions from 2020.CBSE New Board Exam Pattern Class 10 12CBSE will also change its bylaws which will impact the rules for affiliation for schools. These proposed bylaws will emphasize on academic quality of schools like quality of teachers, learning outcomes and pedagogy. Board will not conduct any inspection of the school physical infrastructure. Now, it will depend on reports of directorates of education / school education departments of states which provides recognition to schools.Proposals regarding the examination schedule are still at discussion stage and nothing has been crystallized so far. State govt. and other agencies holds inspection during the process to grant recognition to schools. Now, this would not be case as it is a complete wastage of time and resources. CBSE will completely focus on utilizing its resources to measure the academic quality.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}