{"search_data": "Uttar PradeshYogi Adityanath Schemes 2020 \u2013 Complete List of Sarkari Yojana of Uttar Pradesh Government Check complete list of Uttar Pradesh government schemes for poor, unemployed, farmers, girls & other deprived people, download PDF file of Yogi Adityanath schemes list (Yogi Sarkar Yojana) \u0939\u093f\u0902\u0926\u0940 \u092e\u0947\u0902 \u092a\u0922\u093c\u0947\u0902List of Yogi Adityanath Government Schemes in UPAll the schemes which are started by the Yogi government for the welfare of citizens in the previous two financial years 2020 are listed below:-Yogi Sarkar Yojana for Education SectorYogi Adityanath Free Laptop Scheme in UPTo provide laptops to students who are taking admissions in collegeUP Free Internet Scheme / Vivekanada Yuva Internet YojanaScheme to provide 1 GB free internet to all students taking admissions into colleges.Beti Bachao Beti Padhao Yojana in UPScheme to ensure the education of girl childReward Scheme (Rs. 10,000) for Class 10th Pass GirlsThe state govt. would provide Rs. 10,000 cash reward to every girl upon passing class 10th examination to promote girls education.KG to PG Scheme (planned)Yogi govt. has planned to provide free & compulsory education to all students between Kindergarten (KG) to Post Graduate (PG) level in all government institutions.UP Draft for Fees Regulation Act, 2017This is a bold step of Yogi sarkar against the arbitrary nature of the private schools, now the private schools does not have the authority to increase the school fees as per their will and schools cannot force students to purchase books and uniforms from specified shops.UP Free School Bag & Uniform SchemeAll those poor students in govt. run schools whose annual income of the family is less than Rs. 56,460 per annum (for urban) & Rs. 46,080 (for rural) i.e belonging to BPL category will be given free school bags, uniform, and textbooks.Free Education Scheme upto class 12thAll the students from scheduled castes (SC), scheduled tribes (ST), other backward classes (OBC) and economically backward classes (EBC) category will be given free education till intermediate level (12th standard).Ahilyabai Kanya Nishulk Shiksha YojanaFree education till graduation for all girls.Baba Saheb Ambedkar Scholarship SchemeHigher education to poor studentsUP Government Yojana List for FarmersSubmersible Pumps SchemeUP govt. approves Ground Water Act 2020, Submersible Pumps online registration mandatory in UP, rainwater harvesting for clearance of govt. / private buildings map, boring companies registration also compulsory, punishment, fines (penalty) provision for those who leads to pollution / contamination of groundwater levelUP Kisan Asan Kist YojanaIn UP Kisan Asan Kist Yojana (\u0915\u093f\u0938\u093e\u0928 \u0906\u0938\u093e\u0928 \u0915\u093f\u0938\u094d\u0924 \u092f\u094b\u091c\u0928\u093e) 2020, farmers pay outstanding tubewell electricity bills in 6 easy installments, apply online at CSCMukhyamantri Krishak Durghatna Kalyan YojanaAll the farmer beneficiaries will get Rs. 5 lakh compensation on death / disability while workingUP PM Krishi Sinchai YojanaUP PM Krishi Sinchai Yojana to extend to all districts in Uttar Pradesh for providing irrigation facilities to farmers, UP govt. to ensure Har Khet Ko Pani & More Crop Per Drop for farmersUP Mukhyamantri Kisan & Sarvhit Bima YojanaFarmers and poor people can avail Durghatna Bima (Accidental Insurance) upto Rs. 5 lakh in case of any unhappening incident like road / air / rail accidents, collision, injury due to fall, leakage of gas, burning, drowning, earthquake, lightening etc.Kisan Uday YojanaTo provide 10 lakh energy efficient pumpsets of 5 HP and 7.5 HP capacity to farmers as these pumps utilizes 35% less energy and have free of cost maintenance for the next 5 years.Contract Farming SchemePrivate agro processing companies will make agreement (contract) with the farmers for purchase of their agri-commodities in specified quantities on the basis of mutual agreement of terms, govt. to amend APMC Act to provide alternative choice to the farmers to boost investment in farming sector.UP Fasal Rin Mochan Yojana (UP Farm Loan Waiver Scheme)Under this Kisan Karj Rahat Yojana, govt. will waive off farm loans upto Rs. 1 lakh of farmers who had taken agricultural loans before 31 March 2016 and possess land ownership of upto 2 hectares.UP Interest Waiver SchemeThis is the next step after UP Farm Loan Waiver Scheme 2017 / Kisan Karz Mafi Yojana and now govt. will waive off interests on loans taken up to 31 March 2017 from Uttar Pradesh Co-operative Rural Development Bank to benefit 2.63 lakh farmers.Deendayal Suraksha Bima YojanaAll the landless farm workers will get an insurance coverage of upto Rs. 2 lakh and for this insurance, they would not have to pay any premium amount.Pashu Swasthya Bima YojanaTo promote livestock sector, govt. has taken several measures for disease control and improvement of genetic quality of animals. Thus, the state govt. has devised a scheme named Pashu Swasthya Bima Yojana for assured protection to the farmers and cattle rearers against eventual losses of such animals.E-MandiTo ensure that farmers get appropriate prices of their crops.Gaudhan YojanaGovt. is running Gaupalak Yojana to assist people in starting new dairy businesses.Soil Health CardGovernment plans to issue soil cards to farmers which will carry crop-wise recommendations of nutrients and fertilizers required for the individual farms to help farmers to improve productivity through judicious use of inputs.Fasal Bima YojanaTo provide insurance cover and financial assistance to the farmers in the times of difficulty i.e in case the crops are damaged due to heavy rain, other natural calamities, pests or diseases.Yogi Adityanath Schemes List for Unemployed YouthsKaushal Satrang SchemeUP Kuashal Satrang Yojana 2020 is a skill development scheme to provide special training to 2.37 Lakh people. Kaushal Satrang will have 7 components which will provide job opportunities to the youth.Yuva Udyamita Vikas Yojana (YUVA Hub Scheme)Yuva Hub would be setup in each district under YUVA Udyamita Vikas Abhiyan. The target has been fixed to train 2 lakh youths in various training programmes of UP Skill Development Mission.UP CM Apprenticeship Promotion Scheme (CMAPS)UP state govt. is going to provide training to applicant youths and link them with definite employment for a specified duration. All the youths will also get Rs. 2,500 per month as stipend while working as on-job internship trainee.Hunar Haat Scheme In Hunar Haat Scheme, the state govt. will provide ample market exposure and employment opportunities to local artisans and craftsmen.Skill on Wheels SchemeAll the educated youths would be given 5 days vocational training and each trainee will get certificate of \u201cRecognition of Prior Learning (RPL)\u201d. All the youths will be imparted training about basic necessities like plumbing and mason work. Trainees can enroll and get jobs with handsome salary in various government schemes.One District One Product Scheme (ODOP)Each district will get assigned a product under Ek Zila \u2013 Ek Utpadan Scheme to focus on a particular product to raise its quality to compete in the international market and to provide job opportunities to 25 lakh unemployed youths in the state.Skill on Wheels ProgrammeTo provide vocational training to all the educated youths to ensure employment to jobless candidates at doorsteps, trainee to get certificate of Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL).Uttar Pradesh Kaushal Vikas YojanaUP Skill Development Mission aims to provide skill development training and make available employment oriented and placement linked training in vocational skills.No interview for Grade 3 & 4 postsNow all the youths will get direct appointment on the basis of their secured marks in entrance examinations for grade 3 & 4 posts without the need for any interview, thus curbing corruption.Regulation of vacant police seatsA regulatory mechanism has been put into place to ensure transparency in UP police bharti for all seats.UP Government Schemes for Poor PeopleKanya Sumangala YojanaKanya Sumangla Yojana is a conditional cash transfer scheme to ensure social security to girl child & her development, prevent social evils like female foeticide and child marriage. Each girl will get Rs. 15,000 from the time of birth of girls till they complete graduation.Triple Talaq Victim Pension SchemeUP govt. to provide Triple Talaq Victims with Rs. 6,000 per annum & Rs. 5 lakh as insurance cover, 3 talak victims to get shelter, education, govt. jobsMukhyamantri Jan Arogya YojanaUP Mukhyamantri Jan Arogya Yojana 2019 to provide free medical treatment upto Rs. 5 lakh to poor people from any govt. / govt. aided / private hospitals, around 5.6 million poor people left out of the flagship Ayushman Bharat \u2013 PM Jan Arogya Yojana to be coveredUP Jhatpat Connection YojanaUttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL) proposed Jhatpat Connection Yojana to provide electricity connections to APL families at Rs. 100 and BPL families at Rs. 10 for new power connection.UP Divyang (Viklang) Shadi Protsahan YojanaThe state govt. will provide Rs. 35,000 on marriage of handicapped person under UP Divyangjan Shadi Vivaah Protsahan Puraskar Yojana.UP PMJAY Health Insurance Scheme / PM Jan Arogya Yojana in UPYogi Adityanath has launched mega mega health insurance scheme Ayushman Bharat / PM Jan Arogya Yojana in UP to provide Rs. 5 lakh insurance coverage to 1.18 crore residents, all those citizens whose name appears in SECC 2011 data are eligible.Saubhagya Scheme (PM Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana) in UPYogi Adityanath launches Saubhagya Scheme \u2013 Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana to provide electricity connections to every poor family across the state till December 2018. Around 1.57 crore households whose name appears in the Socio Economic Caste Census (SECC)-2011 are eligible.Mukhyamantri Samoohik Vivah YojanaThis is a Mass Marriage scheme for new couples in which govt. will spend Rs. 35,000 for each couple. Out of this amount, Rs. 20,000 would be directly transferred into the bank accounts of the beneficiary and Rs. 15,000 would be spent on providing a gift such as new mobile phone and other household items.Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana Gramin (PMAY-G) in UPTo construct 10 lakh houses in rural areas in FY 2017-18 to provide shelter to homeless poor persons in the state.Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana Urban (PMAY-U)To construct 2 lakh houses in urban areas in FY 2017-18 to provide shelter to homeless poor persons in the state.Free Bus Ride Scheme for BPL FamiliesUP govt. to issue smart cards for Free Bus Ride Scheme to benefit around 1 crore BPL families with facility of free bus travel in various govt. buses and an accidental insurance coverage of Rs. 10 lakh per household.Indira Gandhi National Old Age Pension Scheme 2018 in UPAll old persons in the Uttar Pradesh state between 60 to 79 years of age will get monthly pension of Rs. 300 and those above 80 years of age will get Rs. 500 per month from central government.UP Widow (Vidhwa) Pension SchemeAll widow women between the age of 18 to 60 years and living Below Poverty Line (BPL) can avail monthly pension of Rs. 300 per monthUP New Old Age Pension Scheme 2018 (planned)Yogi Sarkar to provide Rs. 800 as monthly pension to around 50 lakh senior citizens just like Samajwadi Pension Yojana (Rs. 750 per month) but with an increased coverage. People having 2 wheeler vehicles and Pucca Ghar are also eligible.UP Viklang (Handicapped) Pension SchemeAll the disabled persons above the age of 18 years with minimum 40% disability & whose name appears in the All India Final BPL List will receive Rs. 500 per month.Vishwakarma Shram Samman YojanaTo encourage youths to start small enterprises, the state govt. will provide loans to setup new businesses and to generate self employment opportunities.Atal Pension Yojana / Swavalamban YojanaAtal Pension Yojana is a government backed pension scheme for unorganized sector in which all the subscribers will get minimum monthly pension of Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 5,000 per month after retirement.Garib Kalyan YojanaUnder this scheme, the state govt. utilizes the black money for the benefit of poor people. All those people who possess the black money can deposit their undeclared income in Garib Kalyan Yojana.Other UP Govt. SchemesBhagya Lakshmi Yojana for poor girlsCM Yogi Adityanath launches Bhagya Lakshmi Yojana under which the mother of newly born girl child will get a bond of Rs. 50,000 and Rs. 5,100 in their bank accounts. Only those living under BPL or whose annual income is less than Rs. 2 Lakh are eligible and the parents will get total benefits of Rs. 2 Lakh by the time girl achieves 21 years of age.State Employees Cashless Treatment Scheme (SECTS)The state government will provides cashless treatment to its employees in selected health and medical centers across the state with the help of state health card.Mukhyamantri Samagra Gram Yojana (Shaheed Gram) in Uttar PradeshUP govt. will call the border villages (villages which share an inter-state or international border) by the name of martyr\u2019s as \u201cShaheed Gram\u201d and will provide basic facilities like road, power, schools and hospitals.Mission Parivar Vikas for Family PlanningUP govt. will provide family planning kit worth Rs. 220 to newly weds in rural areas which includes the following items \u2013 3 condoms, marriage registration form, five contraceptive pills & two pregnancy test kits.Lok Kalyan Mitra Internship SchemeTo appoint 824 Lok Kalyan Mitras with monthly salary of Rs. 30k to 40k to publicize the schemes of the Yogi government and to strengthen the feedback mechanism in the entire state.UP Gau Gram SchemeTo open cowsheds to tackle the problem of farmers caused due to stray cows and to open gaushala in various districts. 1st phase will be implemented in 108 villages of Vrindavan to enable farmers to rear cows and earn additional income through the sale of their milk, urine and cow dung.Jansunwai Anti Corruption Portal / Anti Graft web portalYogi Adityanath has launched an Anti Corruption Portal \u2013 Jansunwai on the completion of its 1st year term where people can upload any audio or video against any corrupt act. Citizens can now lodge complaints / grievances at jansunwai.up.nic.inHausala Paushan SchemeAll the pregnant women and under-nourished children between the age of 6 month and 6 years of age will get cooked nutritious food in various Anganwadi Centers in respective gram sabhas, this scheme will benefit 24 lakh children & lactating mothers to improve Human Development Index (HDI).Karma Yogi Abhiyan for government employeesTo transform the bureaucracy and deliver better governance.15 minute police & ambulance helpPolice and ambulance will be available within 15 minutes in the need of hour to ensure that all citizens are safe and secure.Sadhu Pension SchemeIn this pension scheme for saints in UP, the stipend would be raised from Rs. 400 to Rs. 500 per month. All saints / seers above the age of 60 years would be included in the Sadhu pension scheme.UP Good Samaritan SchemeThis scheme will provide incentives of Rs. 2,000 to those who brings injured people (in road / rail accidents) to hospitals to ensure that each injured person gets treatment on time. This scheme will encourage people to help road / rail ccident victims.Download Yogi Government Schemes List in PDFTo download the list of Uttar Pradesh government schemes in PDF format, click the below link. Yogi Government Schemes UP Sarkari Yojana List.In case we missed something, feel free to share in comments.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}