{"search_data": "Uttar Pradesh[Rs. 1,000] UP Govt. Scheme for Coronavirus (COVID 19) Affected Daily Wage WorkersUP Govt. Scheme for Coronavirus (COVID 19) affected daily wage workers, Rs. 1,000 for daily wages labourers, rickshaw pullers and people running small business & kiosksUP Scheme for Coronavirus Affected Daily Wage LabourersThe UP CM Yogi Adityanath has decided to give Rs. 1,000 to daily wage labourers, rickshaw pullers etc. who are registered with labour department. More than 15 lakh people who are dependent on daily income for their livelihood would be given the same monetary relief. The money distribution exercise will be carried with the help of labour department. PM Narendra Modi has addressed the nation and urged people to avoid gatherings to avoid Coronavirus (COVID 19) outbreak.The Coronavirus is in its 2nd stage in our country and if we get successful in stopping it here, it would be a message for the whole world. The COVID 19 spread could only be stopped by taking strict measures. The state govt. has made Isolation wards across UP and already infected people are recovering. The state govt. needs to be prepared to fight this disease.The UP govt. has taken several measures to minimize the effect virus in the state. UP state has an ample supply of food and medicines to tackle Coronavirus pandemic. The main objective is to bring level of infection of COVID 19 down to zero. People must not panic and fall into trap of hoarding of supplies and must avoid unnecessary purchases. CM also assured its citizens that the state govt. will not let shortage of food supplies and other things in the state.Till date, the total number of COVID 19 cases in Uttar Pradesh has reached to 23 with 9 cases in Lucknow, 8 in Agra, 4 in noida, 2 in Ghaziabad and 1 in Lakhimpur Kheri.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://www.news18.com/news/india/up-govt-announces-rs-1000-aid-for-more-than-35-lakh-daily-wagers-to-make-up-for-coronavirus-hit-2545325.html  at  "}