{"search_data": "MeghalayaMegha Health Insurance Scheme (MHIS) List of Beneficiaries / Hospitals & RegistrationTable of Contents  MHIS List of BeneficiariesList of Hospitals Under Megha Health Insurance SchemeMHIS Smart CardPublic Grievance and HelplineHighlights of Megha Health Insurance Scheme (MHIS)MHIS List of BeneficiariesThere are about 9 Lakh beneficiaries under the scheme who have enrolled themselves to take the insurance benefits. The complete list of beneficiaries of MHIS is not available for public download, however one can check his/her name in the beneficiary list at the official website of Megha Health Insurance Scheme at below link.https://mhis.org.in/#name-search-modalThe candidates can check his/her name in the beneficiary list by entering full name of head of the family or by using the URN number along with the block and village.District Wise enrollment data is available at https://mhis.org.in/enrolment and claims data at https://mhis.org.in/claims.List of Hospitals Under Megha Health Insurance SchemeThe detailed list of government and empaneled hospitals is available on the official website at mhis.org.in. The state government has enlisted a total of 165 government and private health centers within the state and 30 outside the state. The complete list of MHIS hospitals can be viewed at the following link.MHIS List of HospitalsThe empaneled MHIS hospitals which are located in other states can be checked be clicking the \u201cOutside Meghalaya\u201d button on the top of the screen.MHIS Smart CardSmart cards are issued to every beneficiary family under the scheme to avail free and cashless treatments under the scheme. However, if anyone has lost his/her smart card, it can be re-issued by the district kiosk.The list of all the district kiosks is available at below link. List of District KiosksModification of smart cards at these kiosks; whereby a name of a family member can be added to a smart card if the Beneficiary did not enroll themselves at the time of enrollment.Public Grievance and HelplineThe complaints and grievances by the scheme beneficiaries can be made online at this link or contact at the phone numbers of respective district grievance redressal committee. The phone numbers are also available at the same link.The status of grievance can also be checked online on the same link on mhis.org.in.Highlights of Megha Health Insurance Scheme (MHIS)Below are some of the main highlights of MHISIn first and second phase, the government provided insurance coverage of Rs. 1,60,000 to each enrolled beneficiary family for an enrollment fee of Rs. 31 per annum.In the third phase, the government is providing insurance coverage of Rs. 2,80,000 for enrollment fee of Rs. 50 per annum for up to 5 members of a family on a floater basis.Senior citizens belonging to BPL and NREGA category would receive an additional insurance cover of Rs. 30,000.All pre-existing diseases are also covered under MHIS.The validity of an insurance policy is one year but it can be renewed by paying a nominal amount.The benefit of this scheme can only be availed in MHIS empaneled hospitals.In addition, the beneficiary can also get treatment of secondary and tertiary care hospitals which have been empaneled outside the state of Meghalaya.For more information about the scheme, please visit the official website at mhis.org.in.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}