{"search_data": "Uttar PradeshSkill on Wheels Programme in Uttar Pradesh \u2013 Training / Employment for YouthsUP Skills on Wheels Programme 2018The state govt. of Uttar Pradesh will launch \u201cSkill On Wheels\u201d program in Varanasi, Lucknow, Allahabad, Jhansi, Gorakhpur, Agra and Meerut. The important features and highlights of this scheme are as follows:-All the educated youths would be given 5 days training in vocation of their choice.All such trainee will be given a certificate of \u201cRecognition of Prior Learning (RPL)\u201d.In addition to this, youths will be imparted training about basic necessities like plumbing and mason work.Trainees can enroll and get jobs with handsome salary in various government schemes. For eg \u2013 Under Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, govt. has taken the responsibility to construct toilets. So, all the trained plumbers and masons can become handy and get employment at their doorsteps. Similarly, trades will be decided as per the needs of other sectors.In the first phase, this scheme will join 5 lakh unemployed craftsmen / mechanic / tradesman.CM Yogi also advocated the need to possess need-based vocational training.The training courses will be specifically designed keeping in mind the type of jobs in their areas. Union Minister Hegde said that an National Skill Development Institute like IIM could be set up in Kanpur to look after skill development exclusively.Tie-up with Major Companies to Provide JobsUnder this Skill Development Mission, govt. has made Tie-ups with major IT / ITES, Mechanical, Electrical & Electronics based companies. These includes Raymonds, Maruti India Ltd., Lava International, Intex, Yashoda Hospitals, G4S, Javed Habib, Supertek Ltd., ATDC, Bhilwada Group and Lemon Electronics. In addition to this, 3 Mobile App Skill Connect, Skill Mitra and Mobile Monitoring System are launched.The state govt. is currently running \u201cITI Chalo\u201d Initiative and govt. is also holding online examinations for ITI Admissions. Under this Model ITI Scheme, two state run ITIs (Saket-Meerut & Karondi-Varanasi) are being upgraded.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}