{"search_data": "OdishaOdisha PEETHA Scheme to Address AMA LED / Mission Shakti / Madhu Babu Pension YojanaPEETHA (Peoples Empowerment \u2013 Enabling Transparency and Accountability of Odisha Initiatives) Scheme launched in Odisha under Ama Gaon Ama Bikas program to create awareness & transparency in AMA LED, Mission Shakti benefits, Madhu Babu Pension Yojana, Artistic pensions, govt. to organize camps at gram panchayat level & best panchayat to get Rs. 5 lakhAccordingly panchayats, blocks and best districts will be awarded with special funds at the state level.Odisha PEETHA Scheme to Create Awareness & TransparencyPEETHA Scheme under Ama Gaon Ama Vikas scheme aims to create mass awareness about various schemes of the state government. This scheme will improve transparency in distribution of individual and social benefits. As per the official statement, PEETHA initiative is a part of the 3-T initiative which is based on Technology, Transparency and Team Work model.The newly launched PEETHA scheme is going to address Ama Ghare LED Light Karyakram to distribute LED lights to poor people, Mission Shakti to target women self help groups (SHGs) and other social security schemes like Madhu Babu Pension Yojana, Artistic pensions, Nirman Yojana etc.To address PEETHA scheme, the state government has decided to organize special camps at gram panchayat levels. These camps will be conducted between 15th & 20th dates of every month. All the block level observers will monitor the scheme.As part of commitment to #3T-Technology, Transparency and Teamwork, CM @Naveen_Odisha announced PEETHA-People\u2019s Empowerment-Enabling Transparency and Accountability of Odisha Initiatives to create awareness and improve transparency in distribution of various government schemes. pic.twitter.com/1GtZtzS8QV\u2014 CMO Odisha (@CMO_Odisha) December 3, 2018Moreover, various voluntary social workers will assist the state govt. in effective implementation of PEETHA Scheme. After successfully organizing the camps, the best panchayat in each block will be given an award money worth Rs. 5 lakh for organizing PEETHA.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}