{"search_data": "Central PM Narendra Modi New / Latest Government Schemes List Check Latest government schemes list launched or announced by Pradhan Mantri Narendra Modi in last 1 year, PM Modi new schemes list download, apply to avail benefitsTable of Contents  Ayushman Bharat \u2013 Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya YojanaPradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi YojanaPM Shram Yogi Maan-dhan YojanaPM Modi Farmers Pension SchemePM Retail Traders / Shopkeepers Pension SchemeAyushman Bharat \u2013 Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya YojanaPradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY) was launched by PM Narendra Modi on 23 September 2018. PMJAY Scheme is a mega National Health Protection Scheme (NHPS) for poor people. Under PMJAY Scheme, govt. will provide Rs. 5 Lakh health insurance coverage for secondary and tertiary hospitalization. Ayushman Bharat Yojana or Modicare is going to provide cashless and paperless treatment to around 50 in govt. / private empanelled hospitals.The official website for PM Jan Arogya Yojana is pmjay.gov.in. All the people insured under Ayushman Bharat Yojana can make claims for treatment in all empanelled hospitals and avail treatment at NHPM Treatment Package Rates. Till 3rd April 2019, around 15,291 hospitals have been empanelled, around 18,35,227 beneficiaries have been admitted and 2,89,63,698 E-Cards have already been issued.This scheme is applicable to all the urban and rural people whose name is present in the SECC 2011 data. The health insurance benefits would be portable in nature and people from any state can even avail PMJAY benefits in other states as well.Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi YojanaCentral government of India led by PM Narendra Modi has announced Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana on 1 February 2019 in Union budget. Under PM Kisan Scheme, govt. will provide Rs. 6,000 per annum directly into the bank accounts of the farmers. All the farmers irrespective of land holding will get this minimum income support scheme benefits as PM Kisan Scheme is now extended. The official website for PM Kisan Scheme is pmkisan.gov.in.The assistance amount would be given through direct cash transfer and amount would be transferred in a single year in 3 equal installments of Rs. 2,000 each. The first installment has already been transferred into the bank accounts of 2,57,23,582 farmers. Around 14.5 crore farmers would get benefited.PM Shram Yogi Maan-dhan YojanaPradhan Mantri Shram Yogi Maandhan Yojana is a voluntary and contributory pension scheme for unorganized workers. Under this scheme, govt. will provide Rs. 3,000 as monthly pension to all PMSYM beneficiaries. All the labourers lying in the age group of 18 to 40 years with monthly income of Rs. 15,000 or less can avail PM-SYM scheme benefits. The worker must not be covered under any statutory social security schemes such as National Pension Scheme (NPS), Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) scheme, Employees Provident Fund Organization (EPFO) Scheme and must not be an income tax payee.Any worker whose job is casual in nature such as home based workers, street vendors, head loaders, brick kiln, cobblers, rag pickers, domestic workers, washer-men, rickshaw Pullers, rural landless labourers, own account workers, agricultural workers, construction workers, beedi workers, handloom workers & leather workers are eligible. All the beneficiaries will have to make contribution till the age of 60 years. Till 4th April 2019, around 28,37,178 people have already joined PM SYM scheme.PM Modi Farmers Pension SchemeSh. Narendra Modi has taken a landmark decision to implement PM Farmers Pension Scheme would secure lives of around 5 crore farmers in next 3 years. PM Farmer Pension Scheme would run in addition to extended PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana would ease economic burden and lead to greater efficiency. The central government would spend Rs. 10774.50 crore for the next 3 years under PM Kisan Pension Yojana. PM Kisan Pension Scheme would be a voluntary and contributory pension scheme for all small and marginal farmers (SMF) across the country.To avail PM Modi\u2019s Farmers Pension Scheme benefits, the age of the farmer must lie b/w 18 to 40 years. Under this PM Kisan Pension Scheme, there is a provision of getting fixed pension of Rs. 3,000 on attaining the age of 60 years. On Subscriber\u2019s death, the spouse of SMF beneficiary will receive 50% of beneficiary pension as family pension. If the subscriber dies during period of contribution, then spouse will get an option to continue the scheme by payment of regular contribution or terminating it.PM Retail Traders / Shopkeepers Pension SchemeUnder PM\u2019s Retail Traders Pension Scheme, all shopkeepers, retail traders and self-employed persons would be provided with an assured minimum monthly pension of Rs. 3,000. The traders and shop owners would start receiving this amount on attaining the age of 60 years. All small shopkeepers and self-employed persons as well as the retail traders with GST turnover below Rs. 1.5 crore would be eligible for enrollment. The age of the beneficiary must lie between 18 to 40 years. PM Trader\u2019s Pension Scheme to cover 3 crore small shopkeepers and retail traders.All the interested persons can enroll themselves through more than 3,25,000 Common Service Centres spread across the country. The Government of India will make matching contribution in the subscribers account.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: sarkariyojana.com  at  "}