{"search_data": "Central Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana Registration Form 2020 \u2013 Apply Online for PMKVY Scheme Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY) registration form 2020 at pmkvyofficial.org, apply online by filling PM Kaushal Vikas Yojana online application form for skill development training, check complete courses list / job roles, training partners list & training centers listTable of Contents  PM Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY) Online Registration Form 2020Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana Course List & Job RolesPMKVY Training Partners / Training Centers List 2020Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana \u2013 ObjectivesMain features of PM Kaushal Vikas YojanaPMKVY Target and Scheme OutlayGet Enrolled Under Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas YojanaPMKVY Guidelines 2016-2020PM Kaushal Vikas Yojana FAQ\u2019sPM Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY) Online Registration Form 2020Here is the complete procedure to apply online for skill development training under the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY):-Firstly visit the official website at pmkvyofficial.orgAt the homepage, click at the \u201cQuick Links\u201d section and then click at the \u201cSkill India\u201d link.Afterwards, Skill India Portal which can even be accessed using the link https://www.skillindia.gov.in/Accordingly, candidates can click at the \u201cRegister As a Candidate\u201d link to open the PMKVY registration form for candidates as shown below:-Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana Registration FormHere candidates can enter basic details, location details, preferences, associated programes and interested in fields.After submitting all the necessary details, candidates can click at the \u201cSubmit\u201d button to complete the registration process. Moreover, candidates must take a printout of the completed PMKVY online application form for any future reference.Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana Course List & Job RolesThe revised list of job roles and courses list for PMKVY Scheme for duration 2018-2020 can be checked using the link:- PMKVY Courses List and Job RolesAll the interested candidates can selected either of the job roles / course to pursue skill development training. Accordingly on completion of PMKVY training, candidates would be placed in reputed companies as per their job roles.PMKVY Training Partners / Training Centers List 2020The interested candidates who wants to pursue PMKVY skill development training must firstly check the PMKVY training centers and training partners list. For this purpose, we are providing you with the direct links to access Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana Training Centers & Training Partners List 2020:- PMKVY Training Partners List PMKVY Training Centers ListUpon checking the list, candidates can choose any PMKVY training center located nearby them. To decide their scope of training and further placement opportunities, PMKVY training partners list must be checked. After all this, candidates can fill PMKVY apply online form 2020 for their enrollment in desired course.Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana \u2013 ObjectivesPMKVY Scheme was launched in order to satisfy the following objectives:-The major objective of the scheme is to make people trained in various skills so that they can become employable and financially strong.The skill development scheme is also aimed to increase productivity of existing workforce and train & certify them according to industry needs.Provide Monetary Awards for Skill Certification to boost employability and productivity of youth by incentivizing them for skill training.Providing an average monetary reward of Rs. 8,000/- per candidates to the beneficiary who is undergoing skill training.Main features of PM Kaushal Vikas YojanaThe training under PMKVY is provided based on the standards (National Occupational Standards \u2013 NOS and Qualification Packs \u2013 QPs for specific job roles) defined by the industry-driven bodies, namely the Sector Skills Councils (SSCs).The skill training is provided based on assessment of skill demand and the \u2018Skill Gap Studies\u2019Government will provide training aligned with the national flagship programmes such as \u201cSwachch Bharat\u201d, \u201cDigital India\u201d, \u201cMake in India\u201d, \u201cNational Solar Mission\u201d and so on.The training providers will undergo the due diligence according to the guidelines of PMKVY issued by NSDC before being registered to provide training to the youth. This will ensure the good quality of training.The training curricula also includes soft skill training, personal grooming, behavioral change for cleanliness, and good work ethics.Trainees with prior skills and experience will be assessed and given monetary rewards for undergoing the assessment.Monetary rewards will be provided upon successful training and assessment to the beneficiaries according to their job roles and sectors. Higher incentives will be given to training in manufacturing, construction and plumbing sectors.The monetary reward amount will directly be transferred to the bank account of the beneficiary without any intermediaries. This will bring transparency to the system and fasten the whole process. Aadhar number of the beneficiary will be used for unique identification.The government also provides mentoring support to the candidates who have successfully completed the training and are looking for employment opportunities.PMKVY Target and Scheme OutlayThe Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY) will provide training to about 24 lakh youth in one year at a cost of Rs. 1,500 crore.Average Reward Amount  (Rs.) Physical Target (Number of trainees in    lakh) Financial target (Rs.in crore) Fresh Trainings8000141120RPL (Recognition of Prior Learning)220010220Sub total1340Awareness and mobilization (5%)67Incentives for supplementary mentorship    and placement services (5%)67Administrative expenses (2%)26Total241500Get Enrolled Under Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana1. Find Training Center: The candidate who wants to get benefits of the scheme, have to find the affiliate training center who is offering a skill development course of your choice. The list of training centers is available on the official website of PMKVY at http://pmkvyofficial.org and further information of PMKVY can be obtained by joining Kaushal Vikas Shivir or by calling on the helpline number 88000-55555.2. Get Enrolled: The second step is to choose the course you are eligible for. To be a trainee, the candidate have to pay training and assessment fees. And at the time of application submission for enrollment, the candidate have to submit their Aadhaar Card and bank account details.3. Learn a Skill: Sector Skill Councils (SSCs) formulated the National Occupation Standards (NOS) and Qualification Packs (QPs) for trainings under the scheme, which will be received by a candidates from PMKVY affiliated training centers.4. Be Assessed and Certified: To complete the course and get certified, the applicants will have to give an assessment of SSC approved agency. After passing the assessment and having a valid Aadhaar Card, the candidate will receive a government certification and skill card.5. Get a Reward: For being certified, the trainee will received a monetary award from the government. The reward amount will be directly transferred to the trainee\u2019s bank account. The certified trainee having a valid bank accounts and has not availed of the monetary reward before, will only be eligible for monetary reward.PMKVY Guidelines 2016-2020Download the PMKVY guidelines PDF from the below link. PMKVY Guidelines (2016-2020) PDFPMKVY Scheme Booklet More information about the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana can be obtained from the scheme booklet or from the official website as mentioned below.Official Website: http://pmkvyofficial.org/ Student Helpline: 8800055555 SMART Helpline: 18001239626 NSDC TP Helpline: 1800-123-9626PM Kaushal Vikas Yojana FAQ\u2019s1. What is Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana? Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY) is the flagship scheme of the Ministry of Skill Development & Entrepreneurship (MSDE). The main objective of this Skill Certification Scheme is to enable a large number of Indian youth to take up industry-relevant skill training that will help them in securing a better livelihood. Individuals with prior learning experience or skills will also be assessed and certified under Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL).2. How can I apply for PMKVY? Anyone can apply online at the official website at www.pmkvyofficial.org or can visit the nearest PM Kaushal Vikas Centres (PMKVY) Kendras. While visiting the nearest centres, you must carry your aadhaar card, PAN card, bank passbook and other documents. You can then select the course in which you want to get training and then start attending classes under PMKVY Scheme.3. What are the key components of PMKVY scheme? PMKVY Scheme components are Short Term Training, Special Projects, Recognition of Prior Learning, Kaushal & Rozgar Mela, Placement Assistance, Continuous Monitoring and Standard Branding & Communication.4. Is PMKVY free? Yes, under PMKVY 2016-2020, the entire training and assessment fees is paid by the Government of India.5. How can I download my PMKVY Certificate? The candidate will receive the hard copy of the certificates from their respective Training Centre or Training Partner after the results have been approved by SSC and Certificates are downloaded by the Training Centre or Training partner.6. What is the benefit of PMKVY? As the PMKVY Scheme is free of cost for the people, there are numerous benefits of PMKVY Scheme. People can polish their skills at the PMKVY training centres. PMKVY training partners will provide industry level job training to each applicant. On completion of PMKVY course, each applicant is given a certificate, mark sheet, assessment report. Moreover, PMKVY training centers also provides assistance in placements to successful candidates who performs well. So, PMKVY will help in skill development as well as providing job opportunities to unemployed youths.7. How many courses are there in PMKVY Scheme? There are more than 165 courses at present under the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana. Moreover, there are 586 job roles for RPL, 261 for short term training and 153 for special projects.8. Who can apply for PMKVY? All the unemployed youth or school/college dropouts who possess an aadhaar card and a bank account can apply online for PMKVY scheme. Applicants must have verifiable alternate ID such as PAN or Voter ID.9. Is PMKVY Stopped? No the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana has not been stopped yet and is currently running. However, the PMKVY training centres have been closed amid Coronavirus (COVID-19) lockdown.10. What is the use of PMKVY Certificate? All passed (above 30% score) and certified candidates shall be awarded Rs. 500 under the scheme. Moreover, all the PMKVY Certificate holders will get Personal Accidental Insurance Cover and Digilocker facility. Also, PMKVY certificate is useful in getting job placements in reputed companies.11. Which Course is best in PMKVY? All the courses in which applicants get entrance are of high quality standards. All courses in PMKVY Scheme are best depending on the interest and needs of the applicants. As per the area of working in which a person wants to work after completion of training, applicants can select their course.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://www.pmkvyofficial.org/  at  "}