{"000-section": {"000-title": "RBI Revises Home Loans Limits for Affordable Housing Giving a Boost to Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana"}, "001-section": {"000-title": "Positive Impacts of RBI Revised Home Loan Limits", "001-normal": "Monetary Policy Committee of RBI has hiked the repo rates by 25 bps and will consistently track the retail price levels. Here are some of the positive impacts of this decision:  \n **Housing Limits**", "002-table": {"column": 2, "data": [["For Homebuyers in Metropolitan Areas", "Housing Loan Limits for PSL Eligibility is now increased from Rs. 28 Lakh to Rs. 35 Lakh in metropolitan areas for Affordable Housing Scheme under PMAY. These Loans will qualify for the Priority Sector Lending. For this increased limit, the precondition is that the overall cost of the dwelling unit must not exceed Rs. 45 lakh."], ["For Homebuyers in Other Areas", "Home Loan Limits in all other areas is also hiked from Rs. 20 lakh to Rs. 28 lakh. The precondition is that the total cost of residential unit must not exceed Rs. 30 lakhs."]], "row": 2}, "003-normal": "The primary objective is to give a push to the potential EWS / LIG homebuyers and thus to the Real Estate Sector which will lead to the overall economic development of the country."}, "002-section": {"000-title": "Negative Impacts of RBI New Housing Limits under PMAY", "001-normal": "This increase in the repo rate and reverse repo rate is done for the first time after January 2014. A few Commercial Banks have already raised their Marginal Cost of Funds Based Lending Rates (MCLR). The negative impacts for this new policy are described below:", "002-listElement": "- This might proves to impact the affordable housing in a negative way as the Home Loan Interest Rates might increase.", "003-listElement": "- This decision is balanced in the way that the actual EMI will not get changed significantly even after the revision in the interest rates.", "004-listElement": "- Real Estate Industry was expecting that there should be a reduction in the repo rate by RBI. This hike may lead to suppressed growth of the Real Estate Sector.", "005-normal": "However it is important to note that, RBI New Policy will not have any significant negative implications for PMAY Beneficiaries. There will be no additional borrowing costs for PM Awas Yojana Home buyers. Thus, there are both pros and cons of this decision, but RBI assures that the positive impacts of this decision will boost the \u201cHousing For All by 2022\u201d \u2013 PMAY Scheme."}}