{"search_data": "TelanganaTelangana Kalyana Lakshmi Amount Raised by 25% for Disabled WomenTelangana govt Kalyana Lakshami Scheme amount raised by 25% i.e from Rs. 1,00,116 to Rs. 1,25,145 for disabled women, apply online at telanganaepass.cgg.gov.in for Kalyana Laxmi Marriage Assistance SchemeTelangana Kalyana Laxmi Amount Raised for Disabled \u2013 Apply OnlineTelangana state government has decided to enhance the amount based on the verdict of the Supreme Court. The verdict said that the disabled must have to get 25% of the additional benefits than the usual beneficiaries under various schemes. So, the govt. has increased the amount under Kalyana Lakshmi Scheme from Rs. 1,00,116 to 1,25,145. All the interested candidates can visit the official website https://telanganaepass.cgg.gov.in/ to apply online for Kalyana Lakshmi Scheme. Here is the complete procedure on how to fill Telangana Kalyana Lakshmi Scheme Online Application / Registration form:- Telangana Kalyana Lakshmi Scheme Apply OnlineAll the candidates can apply online at telangana epass official website and get raised assistance on their marriage. This would reduce the burden from the shoulders of poor parents of girl children who are unable to afford marriage cost.Eligibility to Get Raised Amount under Kalyana Lakshmi Scheme in TelanganaAll the girl beneficiaries must fulfill the following conditions to avail the raised Kalyana Laxmi Amount benefits:-The applicant should have permanent residence in the Telangana state.The minimum age of the girl beneficiary must be 18 years.The girl must be a disabled, however there is no information regarding the percentage of disability.For SC / ST girls, the income limit is Rs. 2 lakh while for BC / EBC category girls, the income limit is Rs. 1.5 lakh for rural areas and Rs. 2 lakh for urban areas.For more details, visit the official website at https://telanganaepass.cgg.gov.in/  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://www.thehansindia.com/telangana/telangana-government-enhances-kalyana-lakshmi-amount-for-disabled-women-542390  at  "}