{"search_data": "Central Atmanirbhar Bharat Loan Schemes 2020 Application / Registration FormsCheck how to fill Atmanirbhar Bharat Loan Schemes 2020 application / registration forms, apply online for MSME loan, KCC loan, street vendors loans, mudra shishu loans, PMAY CLSS home loan schemeTable of Contents  Atmanirbhar Bharat Loan Schemes 2020 Apply Online FormMSME LoansKisan Credit Card (KCC) LoansCLSS Loans under PM Awas YojanaStreet Vendors Loan SchemeShishu Loans under MUDRA YojanaAtmanirbhar Bharat Loan Schemes 2020 Apply Online FormPM Modi\u2019s Vision of Rs. 20 lakh crore package has been announced in 5 tranche economic doses on 13th, 14th, 15th, 16th and 17th May 2020. Below is the direct apply online process to avail benefits of various loan schemes announced in different tranches of Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan 2020 package.MSME LoansThe central govt. has made a a provision of Rs. 3 lakh crore for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises sector. In this MSME loan scheme, govt. will provide collateral free loans to facilitate MSMEs. These loans will have 4 years tenure and will get moratorium of 12 months from which approx. 12 crore workers would be benefited. These business loans can be used for setting up new enterprise or stepping up (expansion, diversification, modernization, technology up-gradation). These can be for:-Acquisition of factory, land and construction of building spaces.Purchase of Plant and Machinery including lab equipment, testing equipment, furniture, electric fittings etc.Meeting working capital requirements like raw materials, stock-in-progress, finished goods, etc.Trade Finance (Bill discounting) for paying the creditors, while awaiting payment from debtors.Launch of new product range, expansion of business, warehousing need, credit for marketing and advertising purpose.Additional monitory assistance for any eligible purpose.To apply online, click at the link \u2013 https://www.udyamimitra.in/MSMELoan. At this page, click at the \u201cPlease Click here for applying loan on your chosen portal www.udyamimitra.in upto Rs 10 crore under MSME which is accessible by 145+ lenders (Banks / NBFCs / SFBs/ FinTechs)\u201d linkDirect Link \u2013 https://site.udyamimitra.in/Login/RegisterThe page to apply online for MSME Loans at the SIDBI Udyami Mitra website will appear as shown below:-Sidbi MSME Loan Apply Online Form UdyamimitraYou will have choices of wider range of lenders (Banks / NBFCs / SFBs/ FinTechs) who can access your application and according to your geographic location the nearest lender may approach you or a fintech from another city may also touch base you. This means you can apply online 24/7. You can apply even in your spare time at leisure. If you have your budget / documents / information ready, you will find the application forms are easy to fill in.MSMEs can avail of the MSME Loan scheme until 31 October 2020. While announcing the first tranche of the governments stimulus package on May 13, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that MSMEs, with an annual turnover of Rs 100 crore or less, will be eligible to receive these collateral-free government-backed loans. Moreover, govt. has also announced Subordinate Debt based scheme of Rs. 20,000 Crore for Stressed and NPA MSME to benefit around 2 lakh stressed and NPA MSMEs. A new Fund of Funds worth Rs. 50,000 crore would be created for equity infusion into those who have potential and doing viable business.The definition of MSMEs would be changed with an increase in investment limit and size along with turnover size. Moreover, the differentiation b/w manufacturing and service MSME will be removed. Now, all the global tender upto Rs. 200 crore to be disallowed and govt. procurement tenders upto 200 crore will no longer be on global tender group. E-market linkage would also be provided across the board in absence of trade fairs to promote e-commerce. Within 45 days, CPSEs and Govt. of India will clear their receivables.Kisan Credit Card (KCC) LoansAround Rs. 2 lakh crore concessional credit would be extended for Kisan Credit Card (KCC) Scheme by the central government. Around 2.5 crore farmers to benefit from this KCC scheme. Fisheries and animal husbandry farmers will be included in KCC Scheme. People can take the following benefits by applying online for KCC Scheme.The Interest rate offered on the loan may go as low as 2.00%.Banks will not seek security on loans up to Rs. 1.60 lakh.Crop insurance coverage against a variety of natural calamities is given to the users.Farmer is provided insurance coverage against permanent disability, death, other risks is also provided to the farmer.The repayment period is decided on the basis of harvesting of crop and its marketing period. Maximum loan upto Rs. 3 lakh can be availed by KCC card holder.Farmers that deposit their money in the Kisan Credit Card account will get a high rate of interest. Moreover, farmers are charged simple interest rate when they make prompt payment.To apply online, click the link https://pmkisan.gov.in/Documents/Kcc.pdf to open single page Kisan Credit Card (KCC) application form.The PM Kisan Credit Card Scheme 2020 online application form for PDF download will appear as below:-Kisan Credit Card Loan Scheme Apply FormAll the farmers b/w 18 to 75 years of age can take benefits of Kisan Credit Card (KCC Scheme). In case a borrower is a senior citizen (age more than 60 years), a co-borrower is mandatory where the co-borrower should be a legal heir. All farmers including individuals/joint cultivators, owners, tenant farmers, oral lessees and sharecroppers etc. are eligible.Other initiatives for farmers includes creation of Farm Based Infrastructure (Rs. 1 lakh crore), Micro Food enterprises (Rs. 10,000 crore), PM Matsya Sampada Yojana (Rs. 20,000 crore), FMD Livestock Disease Control Scheme (Rs. 13,000 cr), Animal Husbandry Infrastructure Development Fund (Rs. 15000 crore), Promotion of herbal cultivation (Rs. 4000 crore), Promotion of Bee keeping (Rs. 500 crore), TOP to Total: Operation Greens (additional Rs. 500 crore).CLSS Loans under PM Awas YojanaCredit Linked Subsidy Scheme (CLSS) loans would be provided under PM Awas Yojana to the lowest strata of middle income group. It includes MIG 1 (Rs. 6 to 12 lakhs per annum) & MIG 2 (Rs. 12 to 18 lakhs p.a). PMAY CLSS scheme which was started in May 2017 and which ends on 31 March 2020 has now been extended till March 2021. Around 3.3 lakh families have already been benefited till now from PMAY CLSS scheme. Now another 2.5 lakh MIG group people will benefit from PMAY CLSS scheme in the next 1 year. This scheme will result in immediate job creation and will also raise demand for construction material such as steel, cement, transport and other house construction materials. To apply online, follow the below mentioned process:-A) People can apply online for PMAY CLSS MIG through the official website https://pmaymis.gov.in/ and then selecting \u201cBenefits under other 3 components\u201d link under \u201cCitizen Assessment section.B) Direct Link to Apply Online is https://pmaymis.gov.in/Open/Check_Aadhar_Existence.aspx?comp=bC) At this page, enter your Aadhar number or Virtual ID and Name as per Aadhar Card and click the \u201cCheck\u201d button. If your aadhaar number and name matches, then the PMAY CLSS MIG Loan Apply Online Form willl appear as shown below:-PMAY CLSS MIG Loan Apply FormD) For complete process and detailed information, click \u2013 PMAY CLSS MIG Loan Application / Registration ProcessThis extension of PMAY CLSS Scheme for MIG households will lead to investment of over Rs. 70,000 Crores in housing sector in India.Street Vendors Loan SchemeThere is an adverse impact on the livelihoods of the street vendors due to COVID-19. Government will launch a special scheme within a month to facilitate easy access to credit to street vendors. The Initial working capital upto Rs. 10,000 would now be provided to support nearly 50 lakh street vendors. Digital payments will be incentivized through monetary rewards and enhanced working capital credit would be made available for good repayment behavior. The central govt. will provide liquidity of Rs 5000 crores.As soon as the official web portal of the Special Loan Scheme for Street Vendors will launch, we will update the apply online process here. Till date, it is known that Rs. 10,000 immediate loans would be provided to street vendors to assist them in their working. All of these would be short term capital loans i.e those which would be provided for a shorter duration to meet daily needs.Shishu Loans under MUDRA YojanaSmall businesses under MUDRA have been disrupted the most due to Coronavirus (COVID-19) lockdown & has also impacted their capacity to pay EMIs. So, Loan moratorium has already been granted by RBI. The current portfolio of MUDRA-Shishu loans is Rs. 1.62 Lakh crore (Maximum loan amount of Rs. 50,000). Now the Government of India will provide Interest subvention of 2% for prompt payees for a period of 12 months. This will provide relief of Rs. 1500 crore to MUDRA-Shishu loanees. People can check the process here \u2013 PM Mudra Yojana Shishu Loans Apply Online / Offline FormThe Mudra Shishu Loan Yojana application form will appear as shown below:-Shishu Loans Mudra Yojana Apply Online FormAll the interested people who wants to avail the Shishu Mudra loans along with benefits of Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan package can now apply online or offline as suitable.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: www.mudra.org.in, pmaymis.gov.in, pmkisan.gov.in, www.udyamimitra.in  at  "}