{"search_data": "Central, OdishaFertilizer Subsidy Scheme \u2013 Direct Benefit Transfer in Odisha from 1 February 2018Table of Contents  Objectives of Fertilizer Subsidy SchemeImplementation of DBT TransferReason for Delay in Fertilizer Subsidy SchemeObjectives of Fertilizer Subsidy SchemeThe main objectives of this scheme are as follows:-The primary objective of the Fertilizer Subsidy Scheme is to ensure transparency for the sale of subsidized fertilizers.For this reason, all the retailers must record the details of all the transactions in their PoS devices.This Subsidy Scheme will restrict the illegal flow of fertilizers to the industries.Moreover the state govt. is going to save a large amount of money towards subsidy.Implementation of DBT TransferBeneficiaries have to verify their identity through bio-metric authentication (Aadhar based). Subsequently, all the details of the buyers of the fertilizers will get captured in retailer PoS devices.DBT Cell, Dept. of Fertilizers, Ministry of Chemical and Fertilizers will ensure that all the given Point of Sale Machines which consists of latest S/W. In addition to this, retailers will have to update their stock book to enroll for the DBT Scheme.Reason for Delay in Fertilizer Subsidy SchemeThe state govt. has delayed the start of this scheme from 1st Jan 2018 to 1 Feb 2018 due to following reasons:- \u2014 Agricultural Dept. has selected total 11,680 retailers for sale of fertilizers out of which 6,174 retailers receives their machines. \u2014 Govt. will implement this scheme only after the equipment of PoS devices on all retail shops and opening of bank account of farmers. \u2014 Primary Agriculture Cooperative Society (PACS) and Large Area Multi Purpose Cooperatives Societies (LAMPS) were to distribute chemical fertilizers. \u2014 However, cooperation dept. has provided PoS machines to only 913 societies till date.Ministry of Chemical and Fertilizers will provide the remaining PoS machines to the retailers. Moreover it will take time to create the Retailer ID and to install the software. Accordingly, the state govt. will implement this scheme from 1 February 2018.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}