{"search_data": "AssamAssam Abhinandan Education Loan Subsidy Scheme Apply Online Form / Eligibility / List of BeneficiariesAssam Abhinandan Education Loan Subsidy Scheme apply online form 2020 available at assamfinanceloans.in, check list of beneficiaries, eligibility criteria & exceptions for education loan subsidy upto Rs. 50,000 under Abhinandhan Education Loan Subsidy Scheme 2020Table of Contents  Assam Abhinandan Education Loan Subsidy Scheme 2020Abhinandhan Scheme Online Application FormEligibility for Abhinandan Education Loan Subsidy SchemeExceptions to Abhinandhan Education Loan Subsidy SchemeAssam Abhinandan Education Loan Subsidy Scheme 2020The Abhinandan education loan subsidy scheme of Assam govt. will immensely help students who have availed students loan. This scheme would cover all commercial banks like the Federal Bank and HDFC and also the regional rural banks like Assam Gramin Vikash Bank within Assam. Here is the complete process to apply online for this scheme:-Abhinandhan Scheme Online Application FormVisit the official website assamfinanceloans.inSelect the \u201cApply\u201d link under Abhinandhan Education Loan Subsidy Scheme section or directly click this linkAfterwards, the Assam Abhinandhan Scheme application form will appear as shown below:-Assam Abhinandhan Scheme Online Application Form 2020Here fill all the necessary details accurately and upload the supporting documents.Finally, enter the necessary details and click at \u201cSubmit\u201d button to complete the application process.Once the Abhinandan Scheme application form is approved, the subsidy amount of Rs. 50,000 will directly be deposited into your education loan account. The Abhinandhan Education Loan Subsidy Scheme is run by the finance department of Assam to enable children to pursue higher education studies. This scheme aims to provide loan waiver to students of Assam who have availed education loans.Eligibility for Abhinandan Education Loan Subsidy SchemeAll the applicants must fulfill the following eligibility criteria to become eligible for Abhinandan Education Loan Subsidy Scheme:-Applicant student must be a permanent resident of Assam.Education loan should have been availed from any Scheduled Commercial Bank or Regional Rural Bank within the state recognized by the Reserve Bank of India.The education loan should be of a minimum of Rs. 1 lakh.All the loans should have been sanctioned before 31 March 2019 amounting Rs. 1 lakh or more.However, the Abhinandan Scheme also covers education loans sanctioned after 31 March 2019. But in that case, education loan subsidy would be provided only after 25% of total sanctioned loan amount has been disbursed. Even the state govt. has not set any minimum income criteria for students to avail benefits. There is no income criteria to be eligible for Abhinandhan Education loan Subsidy Scheme.CM Shri @sarbanandsonwal ceremonially handed over sanction letters to over 1,500 students under the ABHINANDAN scheme at Srimanta Sankardeva Kalakshetra, Guwahati.Ministers Shri @himantabiswa, Shri @SBhttachrya and a host of dignitaries were present. pic.twitter.com/pgmutX1QEO\u2014 Chief Minister Assam (@CMOfficeAssam) December 26, 2019 Exceptions to Abhinandhan Education Loan Subsidy SchemeThere are 2 exceptions to Abhinandan Education Loan Subsidy Scheme. All the students will not be able to enjoy benefits of this scheme in the following cases:-Education loan falls under NPA status \u2013 NPA or Non-Performing Assets refers to those loans which have been declared in default or are on the verge of being declared so. It generally happens when repayment installments of loans are \u201cpast due\u201d for a specific time period. In general, all the banks declare education loans as NPA after specified duration of 90 days.Education Loan is benefited by Bidya Lakshmi Scheme \u2013 2nd type of exemption refers to education loans under Bidya Lakshmi Scheme. This scheme was launched by govt. in 2017 to assist state govt. employees. The salient features of Bidya Laxmi Scheme are as follows:-In this Bidya Lakshmi Education Loan Scheme, all the state govt. employees can avail an education loan of Rs. 5 to 10 lakh.The rate of interest will be 4%.All those persons who wants an education loan of above Rs. 10 lakh can take this type of loan from State Bank of India (SBI). However, the govt. benefits would be limited to Rs. 10 lakh.There will be no collateral or security charged up to Rs. 10 lakh.Assam govt. aims to transform Guwahati as the expressway to the South-East Asian countries. To realize this goal, youths of Assam will have to prove their potential as skilled human resource. CM urges students to pursue their academic activities seriously to shine in competitive world. Education builds strong foundation for students and help them to successfully overcome all adversities in life. Unified efforts are needed to develop positive and healthy environment in the society. Through the Abhinandan Education Loan Scheme, the Assam govt. aims to improve its education infrastructure and urge more students to pursue higher education.For more details, visit the official website at https://assamfinanceloans.in/subsidy/welcome  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://www.guwahatiplus.com/daily-news/assam-govt-launches-abhinandan-education-loan-subsidy-scheme, assamfinanceloans.in  at  "}