{"search_data": "Central 20% Cashback on GST Payment through Rupay, BHIM App, USSD (Digital Means)20% Cashback on GST Payment by Digital Means (Rupay, BHIM App)The important features and highlights of 20% GST Cashback Scheme are as follows:-Govt. will now provide 20% discount on making GST Payment through Rupay Card, BHIM App & USSD transactions.This discount will be given in the form of cashback to incentivise customers.The maximum discount that a person can avail on making payment through Digital means is Rs. 100.GST Council focuses on making \u201cCashless India\u201d and will provide 20% Cashback on GST on every transaction through Digital means.Govt. is going to launch this pilot project in only those states who are willing to join under this 20% GST Cashback Scheme.To successfully implement this scheme in states, GSTN (IT backbone of GST Network) and National Payments Corporation of India will soon launch a new software.In the near future, govt. can decide to implement this 20% GST Cashback Scheme in all states across the country.In meeting of GST Council on 4th August 2018, Delhi, Punjab, West Bengal and Kerala state govt. were against this scheme. So initially, only the pilot project will be launched.20% GST Cashback Scheme Digital MeansGST Council has called the finance ministers of various states to give their opinions on promotion of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME). The GST Council also set up a six-member panel of ministers under Minister of State for Finance Shiv Pratap Shukla to look into the issues of MSME Sector.The GST Council on 4th Aug 2018 approves GoM recommendations to incentivize digital payments through Rupay card and BHIM app by way of cashbacks. After implementation, customers making payments using Rupay card or BHIM UPI will get a cashback of 20 per cent of the total GST amount, subject to a maximum of Rs 100. The next meeting of GST Council will be held on 28th and 29th September 2018.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}