{"search_data": "Andhra PradeshAndhra Pradesh YSR Pension Kanuka Scheme Application Form PDF [Apply Online] Andhra Pradesh YSR Pension Kanuka Scheme launched on 9 July 2019, apply online / download application form PDF at navasakam.ap.gov.in, social security amount hiked for old age, widow & disabled pensioners, now all pension beneficiaries in AP to get an increased amount under YSR Pension Yojana (previously NTR Bharosa Scheme)AP YSR Pension Kanuka Scheme 2019 Apply Online / Application FormHere are the links to download YSR Pension Kanuka Scheme online application form:-Cobbler YSR Pension Kanuka Online Application FormDappu YSR Pension Kanuka Online Application FormDisabled AP YSR Pension Kanuka Apply Online FormFishermen AP Pension Kanuka Apply Online FormOAP YSR Pension Kanuka Application FormSingle Women AP YSR Pension Kanuka Apply Online FormToddy Tappers YSR Pension Kanuka Online Registration FormWeavers AP YSR Pension Kanuka Application FormWidow YSR Pension Kanuka Application Registration FormAP YSR Pension Kanuka Scheme Features & BenefitsThe important features and highlights of the new AP YSR Pension Kanuka Scheme 2019 are as follows:-The pension amount under YSR Pension Kanuka Scheme would be enhanced by Rs. 250 per annum. In the fourth year, the pension amount would be Rs. 3,000 p.m as promised during elections.As per the new order issued by the Panchayati Raj and Rural Development department, the age criteria for old age pension beneficiaries had also been reduced from 65 years to 60 years.All the senior citizens, widows, weavers, toddy tappers, fishermen, single women, traditional cobblers and people living with HIV will now get Rs. 2,250.As per the order, all the disabled people would be paid with a monthly pension amount of Rs. 3,000. Previously, people with 40% to 79% disability were paid Rs. 2,000 while those above 80% disability were receiving Rs. 3,000.For chronic kidney patients undergoing dialysis, the pension amount has been increased from current Rs 3,500 to Rs 10,000.AP YSR Pension Kanuka Scheme 2019The online application process for YSR Pension Scheme in AP to begin at a later date. As soon as the YSR Pension Kanuka apply online process or the downloading of application form PDF process begins, we will update it here.This hike in the pension amount and reduction in the age criteria of old age pension scheme was a part of the \u2018Navarathnalu\u2019. This means nine key welfare schemes as promised by the YSR congress party in their manifesto. Now after a huge mandate, CM said that it is his responsibility to deliver promises made by him.A copy of this YSR Pension Kanuka Scheme is available at the internet and can be accessed using the link \u2013 goir.ap.gov.inNOW CM Jagan said that he would live upto the expectations of the people. The primary objective behind the launch of YSR Pension Kanuka Scheme is to ensure good governance that will make the nation stand and look upto Andhra Pradesh.Also Read \u2013 Andhra Pradesh YSR Aarogyasri Scheme 2019 Also Read \u2013 AP YSR Rythu Bharosa Scheme 2019  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}