{"search_data": "Central Atal Pension Yojana Apply Online Form / Statement / Calculator / Chart & ReviewAtal Pension Yojana online application form at enps.nsdl.com, review APY Contribution Chart, Calculator, Statement (e-PRAN), apply offline at banks for govt. backed pension scheme for unorganized sector to provide minimum monthly pension of Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 5,000 after retirement \u0939\u093f\u0902\u0926\u0940 \u092e\u0947\u0902 \u092a\u0922\u093c\u0947\u0902Table of Contents  Atal Pension Yojana Apply Online FormEligibility Criteria for Atal Pension YojanaAtal Pension Yojana Chart / Contribution CalculatorAtal Pension Yojana StatementHow To Make Atal Pension Yojana Registration at BanksAtal Pension Yojana ReviewAtal Pension Yojana Apply Online FormBelow is the complete procedure to apply online and fill atal pension yojana form online:-Firstly visit the official website enps.nsdl.comOn the homepage, click \u201cRegistration\u201d button or directly click Online Subscriber RegistrationHere enter your Aadhaar Number and generate OTP on your registered mobile number. After entering OTP, click \u201cContinue\u201d button.Afterwards, Atal Pension Yojana Online Application Form will appear as shown below:-Atal Pension Yojana Online Application FormNow provide personal details, family details and generate acknowledgement number. After acknowledgement Id is generated, enter bank / branch details & account number for bank verification.Next fill the pension amount, contribution frequency, nominee and upload the supporting documents and make payment to complete the atal pension yojana online registration process.If the registration process is successful, then bank will debit your account for 1st subscription and will generate Permanent Retirement Account Number (PRAN). Finally candidates can e-sign the Atal Pension Yojana Online form for verification. People can also see \u2013 Apply / Subscribe Online for Atal Pension Yojana (eNPS)Eligibility Criteria for Atal Pension YojanaThe candidates must fulfill the following eligibility criteria to avail Atal Pension Yojana Benefits:-All the subscribers must be an Indian CitizenApplicants must lie between 18 to 40 years of age.The minimum contribution period for APY is 20 years after which govt. of India will provide guaranteed minimum pension.Aadhaar and Mobile number are essentially recommended documents for KYC of beneficiary, spouse and nominee. Moreover for address proof candidates can submit ration card or bank passbook.All the candidates can opt for monthly pension between Rs. 1000 to Rs. 5000 and ensure regular monthly contribution. In addition to this, people can also opt to increase or decrease their pension amount once in an year (in the month of April). Moreover, GoI will link this scheme with PM Jan Dhan Yojana Scheme to automatically deduct contribution from bank account.Atal Pension Yojana Chart / Contribution CalculatorPeople can see the subscriber contribution chart to know Minimum Guaranteed Pension amount per month as per age of their entry. For monthly pension amount of Rs. 1000 (contribution \u2013 Rs. 1.7 lakh), Rs. 2000 (contribution \u2013 Rs. 3.4 lakh), Rs. 3000 (contribution \u2013 Rs. 5.1 lakh), Rs. 4000 (contribution \u2013 Rs. 6.8 lakh) and for Rs. 5000 (contribution \u2013 Rs. 8.5 lakh). All the subscribers can see APY Contribution Chart / Atal Pension Yojana Calculator using the link given below:- Atal Pension Yojana Subscriber Contribution Chart / CalculatorThe Monthly Contribution chart will appear as follows:-Atal Pension Yojana Monthly Contribution ChartPeople can enter APY Scheme at any age between 18 to 40 years and safeguard their future through filling Atal Pension Yojana Online Form.Atal Pension Yojana StatementAll the APY subscribers can see the APY Scheme transaction statement with or without PRAN Number. Subscribers having PRAN number can enter their Bank Account number while subscribers without PRAN have to enter their Name and Date of Birth to view APY statement using the link given below:- APY Transaction Statement View (e-PRAN)People can also read \u2013 Check / Download Atal Pension Yojana Statement of Transaction OnlineHow To Make Atal Pension Yojana Registration at BanksHere is the complete procedure to make registration for Atal Pension Yojana at banks:-All the national banks provide the pension yojana, so, you can visit the bank with which you have your account and register yourself for APY.The registration forms are available online as mentioned above, as well as, at the bank branches. You can download the form and submit it at the bank or you can fill and submit it at the bank itself.Provide a valid mobile number and attach the photocopy of your Aadhar card.Once your application is approved, you will receive a confirmation SMS on your registered mobile number.Atal Pension Yojana Review\u2014 For more info. on APY Scheme, see scheme details in pdf format using the link given below:- Atal Pension Yojana Scheme Details \u2014 Moreover candidates can now avail tax benefits in APY Scheme \u2013 APY Tax Benefits \u2014 For any further query, aadhaar seeding issues, grievance redressal and other related issues, please visit the official website npscra.nsdl.co.in  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}