{"search_data": "CentralUrban Local Bodies (ULBs) Scheme for State Ranking by National Level CompetitionUrban Local Bodies (ULBs) SchemeULB scheme will be implemented in two-phase all over the country. Firstly five states will be selected through national competition which consists of three stages. In addition, this scheme will be implemented during the financial year 2018-19.This scheme will strengthen the institutional, financial and accounting system of the selected ULBs. Apart from this, the scheme will also support and incentivise the states and civic bodies. The incentive grant under the scheme will be provided on the performance-based which will be used for implementing reforms.First Phase of ULB SchemeIn the 1st phase, the five states including one from the northeast will be selected. These five state will get the financial assistance of USD 500 million. The five towns of a state can include under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) under the scheme.Second Phase of ULB SchemeIn the 2nd phase, the government will conduct again a competition to select another eight states across the country under the scheme. These state will get USD 1 billion because these eight states which would be selected in 2nd phase need more reform compare the selected states in the 1st stage. Therefore, the government will provide them more financial support.Selection Process Under Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) SchemeThe state will be selected on the based of selection process which is given below:-CategoryWeightageNumber of AMRUT towns in State50%Previous performance on execution of Reforms in various AMRUT towns10%Project Awards under AMRUT10%Urban Local Bodies declared as Open Defecation Free (ODF)10%Execution of Housing for All scheme10%The Department of housing and urban development (H&UD) has consulted with the two smart cities (Bhubaneswar and Rourkela) and nine towns covered under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT). Because these two cities and nine towns are performing well in the smart city competition.Therefore, the housing and urban development (H&UD) department has given their instruction to take all necessary steps to be ranked top in this competition too.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}