{"search_data": "KeralaKerala Work Near Home Scheme 2020 \u2013 Proper Working Facilities to Employees Near Their HousesKerala govt. to start Work Near Home Scheme from October 2020, proper working facilities to employees near their houses, notification to acquire buildings to be issued within 2 weeks, houseboats to turn officesTable of Contents  Kerala Work Near Home Scheme 2020 for EmployeesLaunch Date (Timeline)Importance of Kerala Work Near Home SchemeKerala Fibre Optic Network (K-FON) by Dec 2020Kerala Work Near Home Scheme 2020 for EmployeesThe state govt. had already started Move to Kerala campaign in which IT parks have started a survey. That survey was conducted to know the opinion of employees and companies on Work Near Home Scheme. The state govt. is preparing a detailed project after selection of suitable buildings and interior of each building would be similar. The interior of the buildings would be arranged on the basis of plan prepared by the Indian Institute of Interior Design. The buildings which are going to be constructed under Kerala Work From Home Scheme would have at-least 5000 square feet area.Launch Date (Timeline)A notification for tender to acquire buildings in Kerala will be issued within 2 weeks. The Work Near Home facility will come into force from the month of October 2020. With this initiative, employees would be able to work at the nearest place of their house amid the Coronavirus outbreak.Importance of Kerala Work Near Home SchemeAs the COVID-19 vaccine is not made yet and it is necessary to maintain social distancing while at work, the state govt. of Kerala has started Work Near Home Scheme. Employees can work near their home place and they will not have to travel at farther distances through bus, train and other transport mode which may be fatal. As the Coronavirus spread takes place in Kerala, the state govt. focuses on Work From Home but now with ease in restrictions, Work Near Home is a next major step of the government.As per the reports, there are many companies which have expressed their interest in becoming a part of the Work Near Home Scheme in Kerala. Currently, such centres can be acquired for low rent as compared to the rent of IT parks in Kerala. The state govt. expects that the project will be a huge success. This scheme is being launched after observing issues including power failure and slow network connection faced by the employees who are working from home.Kerala Fibre Optic Network (K-FON) by Dec 2020K-Fon Internet project will be commissioned in the state by the month of December 2020. With this Kerala Fibre Optic Network project, several issues related with network speed would be resolved which will motivate IT sector in Kerala. Currently, many companies have been shortlisted to occupy space in IT parks.Among these companies, various small companies would be benefited with Kerala Work Near Home Scheme. They would be able to use this facility in the 1st phase and occupy space in IT parks later. It is reported that several non-IT companies have also expressed interest in the Work Near Home facility.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}