{"search_data": "Central Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (Blue Revolution) for Fisheries Sector Central govt. approved Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY) on 20 May 2020 to promote Blue Revolution (Neeli Kranti), focus would be on development of fish and aqautic products, to address infrastructure gap in fisheries sector \u0939\u093f\u0902\u0926\u0940 \u092e\u0947\u0902 \u092a\u0922\u093c\u0947\u0902Table of Contents  Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY) 2020Aims and objectives of PMMSYNeed For PM Matsya Sampada YojanaComponents of PM Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY)PMMSY Scheme Implementation GuidelinesMajor Impact of PM Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY)Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana FAQsPradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY) 2020PM Modi led central govt. is committed towards \u201cBlue Revolution\u201d or \u201cNeeli Kranti\u201d. India has the potential to achieve 1st place in the world in production of fish. So, the Union Cabinet has approved the launch of a new PM Matsya Sampada Yojana 2020 to promote aquaculture. The govt. has already constituted a separate department for integrated development of fisheries. Check out the complete details of the scheme here:-Aims and objectives of PMMSYThe following are the main aim and objectives of PM Matsya Sampada Yojana 2020:-Harnessing of fisheries potential in a sustainable, responsible, inclusive and equitable manner.Enhancing of fish production and productivity through expansion, intensification, diversification and productive utilization of land and water.Modernizing and strengthening of value chain \u2013 post-harvest management and quality improvement.Doubling fishers and fish farmers incomes and generation of employment.Enhancing contribution to Agriculture GVA and exports.Social, physical and economic security for fishers and fish farmers.Robust fisheries management and regulatory framework.The central govt. has also created a special fund to develop infrastructure related to fishing industry. This fund would be used for creation of fisheries infrastructure facilities both in marine and inland fisheries sectors. The central govt. has targeted to augment fish production to achieve its target of 17 million tonne by FY 2021 would be done under Blue Revolution. The govt. would further raise the target to 20 million tonnes by FY 2022-23.FIDF fund would be used to attract private investment in creation and management of infrastructure facilities. Moreover, govt. will also focus on acquisition of the state-of-the-art technologies. FIDF is going to provide concessional finance to state govt, cooperatives, individuals and entrepreneurs. This finance would be used to take up identified investment activities of fisheries development. Under FIDF, loan lending would be over a period of five years from 2018-19 to 2022-23. The maximum repayment will be over a period of 12 years inclusive of moratorium of 2 years on repayment of principal.Need For PM Matsya Sampada YojanaFisheries and aquaculture are an important source of food, nutrition, employment and income in India. These sectors provides livelihood to more than 20 million fishermen and fish farmers at the primary level and twice the number along the value chain. Fish being an affordable and rich source of animal protein is one of the healthiest options to mitigate hunger and malnutrition.The Gross Value Added (GVA) of fisheries sector in the national economy during 2018-19 stood at Rs 2,12,915 crores (current basic prices) which constituted 1.24% of the total National GVA and 7.28% share of Agricultural GVA. The sector has immense potential to double the fishers and fish farmers incomes as envisioned by government and usher in economic prosperity.Fisheries sector in India has shown impressive growth with an average annual growth rate of 10.88% during the year from 2014-15 to 2018-19. The fish production in India has registered an average annual growth of 7.53% during last 5 years and stood at an all-time high of 137.58 lakh metric tons during 2018-19. The export of marine products stood at 13.93 lakh metric tons and valued at Rs.46,589 crores (USD 6.73 billion) during 2018-19.Foreseeing the immense potential for development of fisheries and for providing focused attention to the sector, the Government in its Union Budget, 2019-20 has announced a new scheme, the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY).The scheme intends to address critical gaps in fish production and productivity, quality, technology, post-harvest infrastructure and management, modernization and strengthening of value chain, traceability, establishing a robust fisheries management framework and fishers\u2019 welfare. It would also address issues like low productivity in inland Aquaculture, disease, sustainability of marine fisheries, sanitary and phyto-sanitary matters that impact the competitiveness of India\u2019s exports along with global bench marking.Components of PM Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY)The PMMSY will be implemented as an umbrella scheme with 2 separate components which are as follows:- A) Central Sector Scheme (CS): Under the PMMSY central sector (CS) component, govt. has earmarked an amount of Rs. 1720 crore. B) Centrally Sponsored Scheme (CSS): Under the PMMSY Centrally Sponsored Scheme (CSS) Component, an investment of Rs. 18330 crores has been envisaged. This investment is segregated into Non-beneficiary oriented and Beneficiary orientated sub-components / activities under the following 3 broad heads. These are Enhancement of Production and Productivity, Infrastructure and Post-harvest Management, Fisheries Management and Regulatory Framework.PMMSY Scheme Implementation GuidelinesMost of the activities under the PM Matsya Sampada Yojana would be implemented with active participation of States / UTs. A well-structured implementation framework would be established for effective planning and PMMSY implementation. Here are the full implementation guidelines:-For optimal outcomes, Cluster or area-based approach would be followed for PMMSY Scheme with requisite forward and backward linkages and end to end solutions. The suitable linkages and convergence will be fostered with other centre and state government schemes wherever feasible.Various new and emerging technologies like Re-circulatory Aquaculture Systems, Biofloc, Aquaponics, Cage Cultivation etc. would be given thrust to enhance production and productivity, quality, productive utilization of waste lands and water for Aquaculture.Special focus on Coldwater fisheries development and expansion of Aquaculture in Brackish Water and Saline Areas.Activities like Mariculture, Seaweed cultivation and Ornamental Fisheries would be promoted as these activities have potential to generate huge employment opportunities.Focused attention would be given for fisheries development in Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Islands, Northeast, and Aspirational Districts through area specific development plans.Govt. will promote high value species, establishing a national network of Brood Banks for all commercially important species, Genetic improvement and establishing Nucleus Breeding Center for self-reliance in Shrimp Brood stock, organic aquaculture promotion and certification, good aquaculture practices, end to end traceability from \u2018catch to consumer\u2019, use of Block Chain Technology, Global Standards and Certification, Accreditation of Brood banks, Hatcheries, Farms, residues issues and aquatic health management supported by a modern laboratory network.In PMMSY scheme, development of Coastal fisher communities would be done in a holistic manner through integrated modern coastal fishing villages with necessary infrastructure.Collectivization of fishers and fish farmers through Fish Farmer Producer Organizations (FFPOs) to increase bargaining power of fishers and fish farmers is a key feature of PMMSY.Aquaparks as hub of fisheries and aquaculture activities with assured, affordable, quality inputs under one roof, post-harvest infrastructure facilities, business enterprise zones, logistic support, business incubation centers, marketing facilities etc.Insurance coverage for fishing vessels has been introduced for the first time. Annual Livelihood support for fishers during ban/lean period would be provided.Well-structured extension support services are envisaged under PMMSY. Youth would be engaged in fisheries extension by creation of 3347 Sagar Mitras in coastal fisher villages. Besides, large number of Fisheries Extension Services Centers would be set up in private space to create job opportunities to young professionals.Major investments in construction and modernization of Fishing Harbours and Landing centers for hygienic handling of fish, urban marketing infrastructure to deliver quality and affordable fish, development of state of the art whole sale fish markets, retail markets. E-marketing and E-trading of Fish etc.Support will be provided for safety and security of fishers at sea, acquisition of technologically advanced fishing vessels for fishermen for promotion of deep-sea fishing, upgradation of Fishing vessels for improving the export competitiveness, communication and/or tracking devices and Bio-toilets in fishing vessels.Private sector participation would be promoted for the development of entrepreneurship, business models, promotion of ease of doing business, innovations and innovative project activities including start-ups, incubators etc. in fisheries sector.Major Impact of PM Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY)Here is the major impact of Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana 2020:-1) Enhancing fish production from 137.58 lakh metric tons (2018-19) to 220 lakh metric tons by 2024-25.2) Sustained average annual growth of about 9% in fish production3) An increase in the contribution of GVA of fisheries sector to the Agriculture GVA from 7.28% in 2018-19 to about 9% by 2024-25.4) Double export earnings from Rs.46,589 crores (2018-19) to about Rs.1,00,000 crores by 2024-25.5) Enhancing productivity in aquaculture from the present national average of 3 tonnes to about 5 tonnes per hectare.6) Reduction of post-harvest losses from the reported 20-25% to about 10%.7) Enhancement of the domestic fish consumption from about 5-6 kg to about 12 kg per capita.Generate about 55 lakhs direct and indirect employment opportunities in the fisheries sector along the supply and value chain.Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana FAQsHere are the most frequently asked questions (FAQs) for PM Matsya Sampada Yojana 2020:-1) What is PM Matsya Sampada Yojana? To promote aquaculture and fisheries sector, govt. has approved Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana 2020. This scheme intends to address critical gaps in fish production and productivity, quality, technology, post-harvest infrastructure and management, modernization and strengthening of value chain. Moreover, govt. will focus on traceability, establishing a robust fisheries management framework and fishers welfare. It would also address issues like low productivity in inland Aquaculture, disease, sustainability of marine fisheries, sanitary and phyto-sanitary matters that impact the competitiveness of India\u2019s exports along with global bench marking.2) Who will Benefit from PMMSY Scheme? Fishers, Fish farmers, Fish workers, Fish vendors, SCs/STs/Women/Differently abled persons, Fisheries cooperatives/Federations, FFPOs, Fisheries Development corporations, Self Help Groups (SHGs)/Joint Liability Groups (JLGs) and Individual Entrepreneurs.3) How PMMSY Scheme bring Blue Revolution? PMMSY scheme will bring Blue Revolution through sustainable and responsible development by addressing critical infrastructure gap in fisheries sector.4) What is the Share of Central / State Govt. in PMMSY? Indian govt. has made an investment of Rs. 20,050 crore comprising of Rs. 9407 crore of central share, Rs. 4,880 crore of state share and Rs. 5763 crore of beneficiaries contribution.5) What is the Start Date / Last Date for PMMSY Scheme? The cabinet committee of Economic Affairs (CCEA) of Indian government has approved the launch of Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana on 20 May 2020. As soon as the start date, last date and complete details are out, we will update it here.6) What is the Official Apply Online Website for PM Matsya Sampada Yojana? Only after the official launch of the scheme, you would be able to access PM Matsya Sampada Yojana official portal and then would be able to apply online for PM Matsya Sampada Yojana.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://pib.gov.in/PressReleseDetail.aspx?PRID=1625535  at  "}