{"search_data": "Andhra Pradesh[Rs. 2,000] AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham \u2013 Unemployment Allowance DoubledAP Mukhyamantri Yuva Nestam unemployment allowance amount doubled to Rs. 2,000 which was Rs. 1,000 in previous Nirudyoga Bruthi Scheme, apply online for AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Scheme 2019 at yuvanestham.ap.gov.in before 25 February 2019AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham \u2013 Rs. 2,000 Unemployment AllowanceThe state govt. of Andhra Pradesh is working hard to ensure the welfare of all educated personnels in the state. So for the first time, the state govt. has instituted a Youth Policy and has also doubled the unemployment allowance amount under AP Mukhymantri Yuvanestham Scheme. Now people will get Rs. 2,000 per month dole under the flagship Mukhyamantri Yuva Nestam Scheme instead of the previous amount of Rs. 1,000 per month.AP Nirudyoga Bruthi Scheme online registration are open and jobless candidates can apply online at the official Yuva Nestam portal at yuvanestham.ap.gov.in. AP Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham online registrations to close on 25 February 2019. Till date, around 12, 05,954 candidates have applied online for Yuva Nestam unemployment allowance and the state govt. has already sanctioned amount for 4,46,755 candidates.All the youths in Andhra Pradesh will now get Rs. 2,000 per month allowance in AP Nirudyoga Bruthi Scheme to pursue skill development courses and reduce the burden on the family of unemployed youth.AP Mukhyamantri Yuva Nestam Eligibility Criteria & Documents ListThe complete eligibility criteria and documents list for AP Mukhyamantri Yuva Nestam can be seen through the link given below:- yuvanestham.ap.gov.inThis link will open the homepage of the official Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Portal where other information can also be accessed. This includes making Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham online registration, checking updated data of students enrolled & applied, FAQ\u2019s & other details. Furthermore, candidates can also Download Mukhyamantri Yuvanestham Mobile App to access complete details of Nirudyoga Bruthi Scheme at their smartphones.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}