{"search_data": "Central Restructured National Bamboo Mission Approved by Central Govt.Table of Contents  Details of Restructured National Bamboo MissionRestructured National Bamboo Mission (NBM) \u2013 ImpactImplementation Strategy for National Bamboo Mission 2018Details of Restructured National Bamboo MissionThe important features and highlights of this National Bamboo Mission 2018 are as follows:-This scheme will increase the net area for bamboo plantation in non-forest govt. and private lands.NBM 2018 will enhance income of the farmers and brings a positive impact on the environment.Improvement in the post harvest management. This could be done through establishing innovative primary processing units, treatment and seasoning plants along with technology for preservation and market infrastructure.Promotion of Product development at small, medium and micro levels to give it to the bigger industries. This will add new dimensions to the under developed bamboo industry in India.Restructured National Bamboo Mission will also promote skill development, capacity building and awareness generation to develop the bamboo sector.Restructured National Bamboo Mission will establish around 4000 treatment and product development units. This is expected to bring 1 lakh ha land under plantation.Restructured National Bamboo Mission (NBM) \u2013 ImpactNBM will increase the productivity and thus will raise the living standards of small and marginal farmers. Even the landless and women farmers will get benefitted. National Bamboo Mission 2018 will enhance the income of the farmers and will also contribute towards climate resilience and environment benefits. NBM 2018 will also create employment opportunities in skilled and unskilled sectors.Under this mission, govt. will focus on development of bamboo in the regions where it has social, commercial and economical importance. These includes NE regions, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Karnataka, Uttarakhand, Bihar, Jharkhand, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Kerala.Implementation Strategy for National Bamboo Mission 2018Central govt. will take the following steps for the development of bamboo sector:-Restructured National Bamboo Mission will promote bamboo in limited state and will also increase its social, commercial and economical advantage.Special emphasis will be given on the plantation material of bamboo species which is genetically superior and also possess high commercial and industrial demand.NBM 2018 will adopt end to end solution in bamboo sector including both the bamboo growers and consumers.This mission will serve as a platform to integrate various ministries / departments / agencies along with implementation responsibilities.Govt. will focus on capacity building of officials, field functionaries, entrepreneurs and farmers.Even persons associated with this sector will get skill development training and will perform Research & Development (R&D) for increasing the production and productivity of bamboo.National Bamboo Mission (NBM) was started in FY 2006-07 to promote cultivation of bamboo and minimize efforts on processing, product development and value addition. In addition to this, restructured NBM will improve the quality of bamboo, processing, treatment, markets and skill development and to ensure growth of complete value chain of bamboo sector.From FY 2006-07, this mission has covered around 3.62 lakh ha land under bamboo plantations. Moreover, around 39 wholesale markets, 40 bamboo bazaars and 29 retail outlets are also set up by the central govt. For more details, visit the official website https://nbm.nic.in/  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}