{"search_data": "Andhra PradeshAndhra Pradesh Rythu Raksha Scheme 2019 \u2013 Rs. 10,000 / Acre p.a to FarmersAndhra Pradesh govt. to rollout AP Rythu Raksha Scheme 2019 for small, marginal & tenant farmers, Rs. 10,000 / acre to farmers (Rs. 5,000 / acre for Kharif & Rs. 5,000 / acre for Rabi season) in investment support scheme as input subsidy directly into bank accounts through DBT schemeAP Rythu Raksha Scheme 2019 for FarmersAP Rythu Raksha is a farmer\u2019s investment support scheme aims at providing input subsidy to farmers in Andhra Pradesh. The state govt. will credit money directly into the bank accounts of the farmers through direct benefit transfer (DBT) mode. This AP input subsidy scheme is going to be implemented from the next Kharif season. Moreover, the state govt. will implement this scheme in a phased manner and the scheme would include tenant farmers.Accordingly, the state govt. of Andhra Pradesh is going to credit Rs. 10,000 per year per acre into the farmer\u2019s accounts as a part of Rythu Raksha Scheme. This amount would be distributed as Rs. 5,000 per acre per annum for Kharif season and Rs. 5,000 per acre per annum for Rabi season.AP govt. has specifically designed this scheme for the welfare of farmers on the lines of Telangana\u2019s Rythu Bandhu Scheme in which govt. provides financial assistance of Rs. 4,000 per acre per annum. The guidelines for AP Rythu Raksha Scheme are going to be introduced soon for the overall development of farmers and thus of the agricultural society.This assistance amount would be given to farmers to purchase inputs like seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, labour and other investments. All the small and marginal farmers along with the owners of lands, tenants have been included in the AP Rythu Raksha Scheme 2019.The state govt. of Andhra Pradesh is going to implement this scheme in a phase wise manner and the govt. is collecting the data of the tenant farmers. The first phase of AP Rythu Raksha Scheme is going to be announced shortly and the farmers would get input subsidy in their bank accounts directly.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}