{"000-section": {"000-title": "Indian Railways Used Plastic Bottle Purchase Scheme \u2013 Rs. 5 on Dumping Waste in Vending Machines"}, "001-section": {"000-title": "Indian Railways to start Used Plastic Bottle Waste Purchase Scheme 2019, people to get Rs. 5 on waste bottle dumping in vending machines at railway stations", "001-normal": "Table of Contents", "002-listElement": "- Indian Railways Plastic Bottle Purchase Scheme [Rs. 5]", "003-listElement": "- Indian Railways to Install Vending Machines at 2000 Stations in 1st Phase", "004-listElement": "- Railway Stations to Get 5800 Additional Vending Machines", "005-listElement": "- High-tech Plastic Vending Machines", "006-listElement": "- Use of Plastic Bottles in Making T-Shirt or Caps", "007-listElement": "- Environment Protection by Plastic Bottle Purchase Scheme of Railways", "008-listElement": "- Voucher to Come on Mobile Phone for Plastic Waste"}, "002-section": {"000-title": "Indian Railways Plastic Bottle Purchase Scheme [Rs. 5]", "001-normal": "East Central Railway Zone new initiative of purchasing Single Use Plastic Waste for Rs. 5 under Indian Railways Plastic Bottle Purchase Scheme is a success. People are getting involved in dispensing their plastic waste at the installed vending machines. Moreover, Railway is making use of these empty bottles for making T-Shirts and Caps. Environment would be immensely benefited and pollution would be reduced."}, "003-section": {"000-title": "Indian Railways to Install Vending Machines at 2000 Stations in 1st Phase", "001-normal": "In the 1st phase of Indian Railways Plastic Bottle Purchase Scheme, railways will install vending machines at 2,000 stations. Water as well as cold bottles can be recycled through this scheme. In addition to East Central Railway Zone, Central Railway has started this scheme on some stations of Mumbai while East Cost Railway has installed vending machines on Puri Railway station. This scheme is going to be soon implemented on some other railway stations and bus stands."}, "004-section": {"000-title": "Railway Stations to Get 5800 Additional Vending Machines", "001-normal": "As per the Marketing head of Zeleno which makes Plastic Vending Machines, there are around 7 to 8 companies which make such machines. Till date, there are around 250 plastic vending machines installed in India. Out of these, around 100 to 120 vending machines are installed at different railway stations. Indian Railways has issued a tender of 5800 more such plastic vending machines and work order will soon be issue. It is expected that the work of installation of plastic vending machines would be completed by this year end."}, "005-section": {"000-title": "High-tech Plastic Vending Machines", "001-normal": "All the plastic vending machines are using high level of technology and there is touchscreen to enter mobile number. Machine has sensors to detect that only plastic bottles are being put into it. These machines also provides detailed report that how many plastic bottles are put into it and of which company. Bottles are categorized on the basis of their size (half or full litre) and polyester threads are made which can be used in making items. In certain cities of South India, this plastic is added to Bitomin through which roads can be made. One plastic vending machine cost around Rs. 4 to 5 lakh."}, "006-section": {"000-title": "Use of Plastic Bottles in Making T-Shirt or Caps", "001-normal": "All the plastic bottles collected in vending machines would be crushed. After crushing, a liquid would be prepared which would be utilized in making T-Shirts and Caps. People can wear these t-shirts and hats in any weather."}, "007-section": {"000-title": "Environment Protection by Plastic Bottle Purchase Scheme of Railways", "001-normal": "Plastic waste is a major cause of environment pollution and sometimes also choke sewage lines. This plastic bottle purchase scheme of Indian Railway will help in environment protection and promote cleanliness. As per a report, Indians use approx. 8 Kg of plastic out of which 5% waste comes from railways. So to resolve this problem, Indian Railways comes up with this scheme of providing Rs. 5 in return in the form of voucher for plastic bottle waste."}, "008-section": {"000-title": "Voucher to Come on Mobile Phone for Plastic Waste", "001-normal": "In the plastic vending machine, people have to put the plastic bottle waste along with their mobile number. On crushing of bottle in vending machine, travellers gets thanks message on their mobile phone along with Rs. 5 voucher. Indian Railways is making every possible effort to enable the use of these vouchers at most of the showrooms and retail chain companies. At some places, this voucher is already started working.", "002-normal": "Source / Reference Link: https://www.jagran.com/news/national-indian-railways-will-pay-you-rs-5-for-each-used-plastic-bottles-and-make-t-shirt-or-cap-from-this-jagran-special-19433944.html"}}