{"search_data": "TelanganaTelangana Kanti Velugu Program \u2013 Free Complete Eye Check Up SchemeTable of Contents  Telangana Kanti Velugu Program \u2013 Free Eye Check-Up SchemeEye Camps under Kanti Velugu ProgrammeReferencesTelangana Kanti Velugu Program \u2013 Free Eye Check-Up SchemeThis Free Eye Check up Scheme is a massive first of its kind initiative in the country to benefit 3.70 crore citizens. The main objectives of this Kanti Velugu Programme are as follows:-To conduct universal eye screening and vision tests for all citizens of the state.In case of refraction errors, spectacles will be provided free of cost.Surgeries will be organized in case of Cataract, Glaucoma, Retinopathy, Corneal Disorders.For Vitamin A deficiency and Eye infections, medicines will be provided free of cost.To educate people on prevention of serious eye disabling diseases.Kanti Velugu Programme in TelanganaAll the services to be provided are absolutely free of cost. This scheme will provide benefits to all residents irrespective of their Socio-Economic status. Even a 30 day old baby can be treated for Retinoblastoma. This is an essential step as around 30% to 40% citizens in the state are suffering from eye problems.Eye Camps under Kanti Velugu ProgrammeVarious Eye Camps will be organized in different parts of the state to identify and treat eye disorders. Important features and facilities being provided to people at these Eye Camps are as follows:- \u2014 Medical teams will conduct Eye Camps. Each Medical team will comprise of 1 Medical Officer, 2-3 MPHS (Male) & (Female), 1-2 Optometrists, Pharmacist, 2-3 ASHA Workers and 1 Data Entry Operator. \u2014 Each team will get a full time vehicle and will be equipped with essential devices, materials and drugs to provide services. \u2014 In Rural areas, Camps will be organized PHC-Wise in all Gram Panchayats in Rural areas. In GHMC areas and other Urban areas, camps will be held Ward Wise. \u2014 Data of each person walking in for treatment will be captured electronically on a software. This will ensure tracking of follow up services for surgery and distribution of glasses accurately. Expected Outreach of Kanti Velugu ProgrammeOverall Population covered3.5 CroresTotal Glasses / Spectacles to be provided41,05,808People to be given Primary Care50 LakhsPeople to be given Secondary Care3,31,178Number of people to be given Tertiary Care14,283It is expected that the total budget of this scheme will be around 106.84 crore. Out of this, the state govt. will provide Rs. 84 crore while the remaining amount of Rs. 24 crore will be tapped under National Health Mission.References\u2014 For more details, see the official notification \u2013 Kanti Velugu Program Notification \u2014 Visit the official website \u2013 http://chfw.telangana.gov.in/homeTSACS.do  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}