{"search_data": "DelhiDDA to Launch SC / ST Special Online Housing Scheme 2019 [500 Flats From Old Inventory] DDA to launch Special Online Housing Scheme 2019 for SC / ST category, 500 flats from old inventory are on offer in SFS / HIG, MIG, LIG & Janta / EWS category, payment of application fees to made online & for flats is on cash down basis, allotment of flats to be made through draw of lotsDDA SC / ST Special Online Housing Scheme 2019The authority has taken a decision to launch a DDA special online housing scheme 2019 for SC / ST for approx. 500 flats from old inventory. Application fees is to be made online only and the ratio will be 2:1 for SC and ST category applicants and tentative cost will be as per standard costing. All the flats on offer are in SFS / HIG, MIG, LIG and Janta / EWS category. Payment of flats will be on cash down basis under PWDs category. DDA flat allotment will be done through draw of lots.All other terms and conditions of DDA Special Online Housing Scheme 2019 is going to be as per the brochure of housing scheme including the application fees. DDA has received around 50,000 applications for its new online housing scheme 2019 with authorities attributing the poor response to bulk of flats being located in Narela area in outer Delhi. The last date to apply online for DDA\u2019s online scheme 2019 which was launched in March has ended on 10 June 2019.As per the existing provision of the scheme for allotment of houses to SC / STs, in case the total number of applications received are less from the reserved category, then all the remaining flats would be offered to persons belonging to general category. DDA will also offer 1 bedroom flats to Non-Commissioned Officers (NCOs) and recipients of gallantry, awards, war widows and persons who got injured or disabled during action or war.DDA has also decided to offer 1 bedroom flats at Sector G-2 and G-8 Narela and Sectors 34 and 35 Rohini to above category of persons at 7 lakh per dwelling unit although cost of flat is around 15 lakh. This will be 1 time concession to persons of this category. As 50% of cost is being charged, a clause would be incorporated in the demand letter. Allottees would not be able to sell or transfer or part with possession of flats in any manner for 10 years from date of possession. During this period, the property would be treated as leasehold.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://www.news18.com/news/india/dda-to-launch-special-online-housing-scheme-2019-for-scst-category-2187529.html  at  "}