{"search_data": "Central Ayushman Bharat Health Scheme \u2013 PM Jan Arogya Yojana [Important Points] Ayushman Bharat - PM Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY) Health Scheme launched by PM Modi in Ranchi on 23 Sept 2018, NHPS scheme to provide cashless treatment of upto Rs. 5 lakh to 50 cr poor rural & urban beneficiariesIt is imperative to note that there is no need to make any registration or fill online application form under PMJAY. People can avail treatment by just showing either their Aadhar Card or Ayushman Family Cards or Ration Card or Voter Card. In case of any problem contact the PMJAY helpline number at 14555 or 1800-111-565. This scheme is launched simultaneously in 445 districts of 30 states across the country.Table of Contents  Ayushman Bharat Health Scheme (AB-PMJAY) Launched by PM Modi1. Who will be the AB-PMJAY Beneficiaries2. How much will Ayushman Bharat Yojana Cost?3. Extreme outreach of Ayushman Bharat National Health Protection SchemeAyushman Bharat Health Scheme (AB-PMJAY) Launched by PM ModiPMJAY-Ayushman Bharat is the biggest government sponsored healthcare scheme in the world. This scheme is not based on caste, gender or religion but includes deprived rural and urban families. In the upcoming days, this health assurance scheme will benefit lower middle class, middle class and upper middle class people by providing them indirect jobs. The central govt. believes that this \u201cModicare\u201d scheme will become a game changer for the next general elections. The summary of extent and importance of the scheme are explained in brief below:-1. Who will be the AB-PMJAY BeneficiariesAB-PMJAY scheme targets at poor, deprived rural families and identified occupational categories of urban workers families. Accordingly if we go by the SECC 2011 data, this Ayushman Bharat Health scheme would include 8.03 crore households in rural areas and 2.33 crore families in urban areas.The central govt. will ensure that no eligible beneficiary is left out (especially women, children and senior citizens). In addition to this, there is no cap on the family size and age of people under PM Rashtriya Swasthya Suraksha Mission (PMRSSM). People can check name in PMJAY beneficiaries list to check whether they are eligible or not.2. How much will Ayushman Bharat Yojana Cost?Ayushman Bharat Yojana may cost around Rs. 5,000 crore this year because it is rolled out in the month of September 2018. From next year, it is expected that it would cost around Rs. 10,000 crore after its roll-out from next year. In a single year, there are likely to be around 8 crore beneficiaries and govt. targets to cover around 10 crore people in a single year by FY 2020.Ayushman Bharat \u2013 PM Jan Arogya Yojana will run on a 60:40 basis where central govt\u2019s share is around 60% and 40% share is of state government. In the 1st year, out of the total expenditure of Rs. 5,000 crore, central govt. may bear the burden of around Rs 3,000 crore. This share of central govt. will increase to around Rs. 7000 crore in FY 2020. Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY) is going to subsume Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana (RSBY) which was launched in 2008 by the UPA government.Glad that #AyushmanBharat, one of the largest healthcare initiatives globally, is associated with two greats- Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar and Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya.On Ambedkar Jayanti, wellness centres were launched and just before Deendayal Ji\u2019s Jayanti, PMJAY begins. pic.twitter.com/9svdAvFOY7\u2014 Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) September 23, 2018As per the reports of international rating agency Moody\u2019s, Ayushman Bharat Yojana is credited positive for insurance companies as AB-NHPM scheme would result in higher premium growth. Moreover, NHPS scheme will also provide insurers with cross-selling and servicing opportunities.3. Extreme outreach of Ayushman Bharat National Health Protection SchemeAll the states were asked to setup kiosks at all empanelled hospitals with PM-JAY branding. This initiative will cover all such hospitals with publicity material like banners on AB-PMJAY scheme, giving uniforms to Arogya Mitras who will help people about NHPS scheme at hospitals and distribute pamphlets to incoming patients.Ayushman Bharat Health Assurance SchemeThe state govt. would also perform outdoor advertising and would hold panchayats in villages. This branding would assist beneficiaries to know where to contact to get PMJAY services. Publicity of AB-NHPM scheme, especially the audio and visual communication, will help in reaching the beneficiaries effectively.Ayushman Bharat PM Jan Arogya Yojana ProgressPeople who are still finding it difficult to understand the details of PMJAY scheme can contact the AB-PMJAY helpline number \u2013 14555. Around 1.5 lakh Health & Wellness Centers will be opened across the country to provide appropriate treatment to the needy people.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}