{"search_data": "Central Download Khelo India Mobile App Launched by PM Narendra Modi PM Narendra Modi launches Khelo India Mobile App developed by SAI, android phone users can download 3.74 MB app from google playstore on their smartphones \u0939\u093f\u0902\u0926\u0940 \u092e\u0947\u0902 \u092a\u0922\u093c\u0947\u0902Download Khelo India Mobile AppKhelo India App is going to create awareness about sports and fitness especially among youngsters to develop a sporting ecosystem in India. The direct link to download mobile app of the Khelo India programme is given below:- Download Khelo India AppKhelo India App Launch \u2013 FeaturesThis mobile app launched by PM Narendra Modi has 3 features which are helpful in identification of potential champions among children across the country which have been described below:-Learn \u2013 The 1st section has general information about rules, regulations and videos of as many as 18 sports disciplines.Play \u2013 In the 2nd section, there is a complete list of playing facilities across the country. People can choose sports and find the places to play and he users can find data of sports facilities across their state and town. This section also includes information about sports facilities managed by SAI where children can get training and achieve their competitive goals.Get Fit \u2013 This 3rd section in the Khelo India App has 8 fitness tests through which any athlete can determine the level of their fitness and choose a sport they like. This section also helps parents in keeping tack of fitness activities of their children. Govt. could identify talented athletes from school and local level and will provide them with a platform to display their skills on big platform with the help of required training. With the official launch of this Khelo India Mobile App, India can increase its domination in multisport events like Asian games, Olympics and Commonwealth games.Khelo India initiative was launched to promote sports across the country and turn India into a sporting giant across various disciplines. In the past few years, a huge number of athletes have come through the Khelo India competitions which aims to pick out talent from the grassroots level.#KheloIndia App launched by PM Shri @narendramodi today at Vigyan Bhawan. One more step towards a fitter nation. pic.twitter.com/T9PFhFlrmG\u2014 Dept of Sports MYAS (@IndiaSports) February 27, 2019Khelo India App aims to develop fitness culture among general public and will help youths to realize their sporting dreams with proper info. on fitness and different kind of sports.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}