{"search_data": "ChhattisgarhChhattisgarh CM Haat Bazar Yojana \u2013 Health Care Facilities in All ST Areas (Clinic Scheme)Chhattisgarh govt. to launch CM Haat Bazaar Yojana to provide healthcare facilities in scheduled tribe (ST) areas on 2 October 2019 \u0939\u093f\u0902\u0926\u0940 \u092e\u0947\u0902 \u092a\u0922\u093c\u0947\u0902CG Chief Minister Haat-Bazaar Clinic SchemeThe important features and highlights of Chhattisgarh CM Haat Bazar Yojana are as follows:-The state govt. will organize haat bazaar to provide health facilities. The main objective is to provide health facilities to last person in remote areas especially in tribal areas.CG govt. will send mobile health teams to provide portable x-ray facility. Mitanins and RHOs instructed to bring patients to haat-bazaar clinics.Govt. will also provide facilities to ensure check up for diseases as well as free medicines and treatment. There would be extensive use of mobile units and portable machines.Chhattisgarh govt. will upgrade various health units under Universal Health Care Scheme. Weekly Haat-Bazaars with mobile clinics in far flung tribal and naxal affected areas with pathology services, portable X-ray and other medical facilities and essential medicines.In CM Haat-Bazaar Clinic Scheme, there would be private room for women and facility to send serious patients to larger centres.In several haat-bazars, govt. will provide facility of free testing and treatment of several diseases.CG Chief Minister Haat Bazaar YojanaCM Haat Bazaar Yojana is an initiative of the state govt. to take health services in scheduled tribe areas. The CM Haat-Bazaar Clinic Scheme would be advertised in local language to benefit local people. The state govt. has started neo-natal intensive care units at Narayanpur, Sukma and Kondagaon districts.References\u2014 CG CM Mukhyamantri Suposhan Abhiyan to provide nutritious meals to women and children has also started on 2 October 2019. CM Bhupesh Baghel had already launched Harik Naani Bera Campaign in Bastar district to tackle the menace of malnutrition.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}