{"search_data": "OdishaOdisha Basuda Scheme \u2013 Portable Piped Water For All under Mega Pipe Water SchemeBuxi Jagabandhu Assured Water Supply to Habitations (Basudha) scheme / Mega Pipe Water Scheme launched in Odisha to provide portable piped water supply to all and to ensure that given water is safe for drinking & domestic purposes, water from Rushikulya river is to be treated at an estimated cost of Rs. 203 croreOdisha Basudha Scheme \u2013 Portable Piped Water Supply to AllUnder Basidha Scheme, the state govt. is going to provide drinking water to 147 villages which includes 55 in Ganjam block and 92 in Krushnaprasad block. This mega Pipe Water Scheme (PWS) will be implemented by the Panchayati Raj and Drinking Water Department.Hyderabad-based GVPR Engineers Limited will executed this project and is expected to benefit water scarce villages of Puri and Ganjam districts. The plant will source water from  Rushikulya river with an estimated cost of around Rs. 203 crore.Just 2 days back, CM has also launched the Basudha helpline number 1916 which is dedicated grievance management initiative for rural water supply in the state. People can make complaints regarding drinking water supply in rural areas at this helpline number before 6 a.m to 6 p.m. All the grievances are going to be addressed in a given time frame.CM @Naveen_Odisha laid foundation on a mega water supply project under Buxi Jagabandhu Assured Water Supply to Habitations (BASUDHA) scheme. It will supply potable piped water to 147 villages of Puri and Ganjam districts pic.twitter.com/C4eq3O7Z8L\u2014 CMO Odisha (@CMO_Odisha) November 23, 2018The BASUDHA scheme was firstly launched in the FY 2017-18 as a tribute to Buxi Jagabandhu with an outlay of Rs. 600 crore. The state government is going to provide Rs. 1,000 crore for the scheme in 2018-19. Odisha govt. has build 78 state-of-the-art water testing laboratories across Odisha to ensure that the supplied water meets the necessary quality standards. Over 5 lakh samples are being tested in these laboratories in a particular year.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}