{"search_data": "KeralaPravasi Chitty Scheme \u2013 KSFE Chitties to be Launched in Kerala in March 2018Kerala govt. hopes to exceed the target collection of Rs 10k crore by a huge margin. Moreover, this scheme will benefit around 2 lakh investors in the 1st year after its official launch.Table of Contents  Agents for Selling the Pravasi Chitty Scheme in Gulf CountriesRole of Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB)ReferencesAgents for Selling the Pravasi Chitty Scheme in Gulf CountriesKerala govt. will allow various agents such as banks and others to sell this scheme to the investors residing in the Gulf Countries. Moreover, these agents will have to acquire the required permission from the regulation agency of those countries.Govt. is going to make provisions such that NRKs are able to join this Chitty scheme online. Moreover, govt. will develop a mobile app for this purpose. Accordingly with this online facility, any person can get involved in chitty activities. People can enroll for memberships, make payment of monthly subscription and enrollment for auctions through online mode. Furthermore, govt. is also going to setup a 24*7 grievance redressal office which will operates at Infopark.Role of Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB)As per the survey reports, the funds sent by the people (online transfer) to our country through diaspora provides support to at-least 50 lakh people in Kerala out of the total population of 3.15 crore. NRI Chitties will raise a fund of Rs. 10,000 crore which the state govt. will use for developmental activities.Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) will get these collected funds. KIIFB is a technical partner of KSFE Pravasi Chitties. The total amount of NRI deposits is around Rs 1.52 trillion with several public sector and private sector banks in Kerala. Furthermore, Pravasi Chitty Scheme will raise the amount of NRI deposits which the state govt. will utilize in various developmental activities.References\u2014 For more details on Kerala State Financial Enterprises (KSFE), visit the official website using the link given below:- ksfe.com \u2014 Furthermore for details of Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB), please click the link given below:- kiifb.kerala.gov.in  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}