{"search_data": "MaharashtraMaharashtra Go Girl Go Scheme 2020-21 For Youths [Khelo India Games]Maharashtra Go Girl Go Scheme 2020-21 started to encourage 1.04 cr female athletes to perform better in sports & earn medals in games at national / international levelMaharashtra Go Girl Go Scheme 2020-21In Go Girl Go Scheme, govt. will conduct various activities in the field of sports, fitness and nutrition at the state, districts and taluka level. The main purpose is to identify female athletes and enable them to secure various medals in the upcoming sports events across the world. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said that Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj had never tested defeat. His principle was to preserve people over finance which led to his several victories.The youth should take this principle to ground sports to keep their health in best condition. Each and every youth must do whatever they can for the betterment of Maharashtra state keeping their health in best condition. Awards are not given, they are required to be earned with hard work. The athletes of Maharashtra had performed excellently to take state at top level in Khelo India Youth Games competition.Go Girl Go Scheme will include around 1.04 crore girls which aims to keep them physically fit. This scheme will also prepare the female players to participate and secure medals in various international competitions. Moreover, such schemes would create a new energy among girls. Currently, youths are mostly engaged on social media but they needs to turn to ground sports to keep them physically and mentally fit and healthy.The organizers would arrange 100 meter running race under Go Girl Go Scheme in Maharashtra. This scheme would be beneficial to girls to make inroads in all fields including sports. All the youths must achieve distinctions in sports as well as technology which also lead to concentration in studies. The state govt. must ensure physical, intellectual and psychological progress to achieve the progress of Maharashtra state and India.The youths must increase their participation in sports and the government must encourage sports in the state. Each developed country in the world is making spectacular progress in sports and the state should follow them.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://www.thestatesman.com/sports/maharashtra-government-launches-go-girl-go-campaign-1502843551.html  at  "}