{"search_data": "Central New Crop Procurement Scheme for Farmers to ensure Minimum Support PriceMSP implementation requires combined efforts and cost sharing between states and central govt. So, govt. has prepared an institutional mechanism to implement support price system across India.Crop Procurement SchemeCentral govt. has already prepared the mechanism and is going to discuss it in the cabinet meeting on 4 April 2018. This new scheme involves 3 mechanisms which are described as follows:-Market Assurance Scheme (MAS) \u2013This scheme involves decentralized procurement of crops i.e purchase and disposal of crops by state agencies. Under MAS, central govt. will provide 100% compensation to state govt. if the loss in procurement and other operations is upto 25% of MSP value of crop. If loss in procurement is between 25% to 30% of MSP value, then Centre and States share of compensation is in the ratio of 60:40.Moreover if procurement loss is 30% to 40% MSP Value then burden will get shared in 50:50 ratio. If price loss is upto 15% then total expenditure will be 40,331 crore while it will increase to 53,775 crore if loss is upto 25%. For more details on MAS, click \u2013 Market Assurance Scheme for Price SupportPrice Deficiency Payment Scheme (PDPS) \u2013This scheme provides compensation to the farmers as per the MSP rates. In PDPS Scheme, if MSP loss value is 15% then cost will remain Rs. 22,584 crore while it will rise to Rs. 36,300 crore if MSP loss value is 25%.PDPS Scheme is similar to Bhavantar Bhugtan Scheme of Madhya Pradesh govt. where farmers get price deficit.Private Agencies Involvement \u2013 Central Govt. will involve private agencies to procure crops at MSP.Most of the states favours MAS but states are free to choose PDPS and also involve private agencies for procurement. Market Assurance Scheme will replace Private Support Scheme (PSS) and will cover all 23 crops. Through MAS, state govt. can directly procure farmers produce and credit MSP directly into their bank accounts. Central govt. will bear cost of expenditure (max. 15%).Cabinet committee will decide the extent of support to the loss and overall sharing of costs. Bihar, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand, Tamil Nadu favours MAS while Madhya Pradesh favors PDPS. Central govt. will provide opportunity to the state govt. to opt either of the 2 schemes or both depending on their choice of crops.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}