{"search_data": "Central National Mission on Interdisciplinary Cyber-Physical Systems by Central Govt.National Mission on Interdisciplinary Cyber-Physical Systems (NM-ICPS) approved by Central Govt. to create next generation technologies for next 5 years with an outlay of Rs. 3660 crore, govt. to setup 15 technology innovation hubs (TIH), 6 application innovation hubs (AIH) and 4 technology translation research hubs (TTRP)Table of Contents  National Mission on Interdisciplinary Cyber-Physical Systems1. NM-ICPS Implementation Strategy & Benefits2. NM-ICPS ImpactNational Mission on Interdisciplinary Cyber-Physical SystemsNM-ICPS mission implementation is going to develop and bring the following measures:-To bring Cyber Physical Systems (CPS) and other technologies in the ambit of our country.To adopt CPS technologies to address national and regional issues of India.Production of next gen. skilled manpower in CPS.To catalyze translational research.Acceleration of entrepreneurship and start-up ecosystem development in CPS.To place India with other advanced countries and to get direct and indirect benefits.Govt. will provide boost to advanced research in CPS, technology development and higher education in science, technology and engineering disciplines. NM-ICPS is a Pan India Mission and will cover entire country of India which includes central ministries, state government, industry and academia.1. NM-ICPS Implementation Strategy & BenefitsThe Hubs & TTRPs will focus on the following areas for mission implementation. This includes:-Technology DevelopmentHRD & Skill DevelopmentInnovation, Entrepreneurship & Start-ups Ecosystem DevelopmentInternational CollaborationsThis mission will feed the central ministries / departments and state govt. and also the Industry to use CPS technologies in their projects and schemes.2. NM-ICPS ImpactCPS technologies plays a major role in nation\u2019s scientific, engineering, and technological innovative capabilities. This supports various govt. missions, provide industrial and economic competitiveness and is now a strategic resource. This mission is an engine of growth which benefits initiatives in health, education, environment, agriculture, energy, strategic cum security, industrial sectors. CPS is an integrated next generation system taken up by countries for developmental purposes and will bring in entire skill sets requirement.Advanced skills and skilled manpower would be generated which in turn would create job opportunities. Innovation, Entrepreneurship and Start-up ecosystem is an integral part of the proposed NM-ICPS. Start-ups are going to create a number of technology driven job opportunities in CPS and allied areas. Around 40,000 jobs would be created in short term and approx. 2 lakh jobs would be created in long term.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}