{"search_data": "CentralUIDAI Virtual ID (VID) \u2013 Aadhaar Card / Database Privacy & SecurityHow to Generate UIDAI Aadhaar Virtual Identity (16 Digit) Number \u2013 VID GenerationUIDAI has started this concept to ensure privacy and security of Aadhaar database. Moreover, this move will also limit the collection and storage of personal and demographic data of Aadhaar Card holders.Table of Contents  UIDAI Virtual ID \u2013 DetailsUIDAI Virtual ID \u2013 WorkingReferencesUIDAI Virtual ID \u2013 DetailsThe important features and highlights of this new system are as follows:-Virtual ID is a temporary 16 digit Random Number. This Virtual ID will give limited information like name, address and photograph only to other authorized agencies like mobile companies.There is no limit on generation of Virtual ID\u2019s. Any Person can generate any number of such ID\u2019s.Moreover after generation of a fresh ID, the previous ID gets auto-cancelled.Central govt. is going to make the acceptance of Virtual ID compulsory from 1 June 2018 for all agencies, which makes use of Aadhaar Card for authentication.This revocable 16 digit number will get mapped on the Aadhaar Number of person. Accordingly, Aadhaar issuing body will start accepting these numbers from 1 March 2018.People can use this number as an alternative option for aunthentication and KYC services.Subsequently, this number will remain valid for specified amount of time or till the time user changes it.Candidates can generate this ID themselves. However, no other agency is permitted to generate this ID on behalf of the Aadhaar holder.UIDAI has also started \u201cLimited KYC\u201d process. In this, UIDAI will provide limited amount of information about the users to any unauthorized agency (providing a specific service).Furthermore, all the agencies which are unable to migrate to this newly introduced concept within specific deadlines will have to face financial disincentives.UIDAI has now started giving instructions to all the concerned agencies about the implementation of this Virtual ID.UIDAI Virtual ID \u2013 WorkingThe working of this Id is explained as follows:-The last digit of 16 digits in VID is a checksum which uses Verhoeff algorithm similar as used in Aadhaar number.At a particular time, only 1 active and valid VID will exist for any Aadhaar number.Verhoeff algorithm is checksum formula for error detection which was developed by Dutch Mathematician Jacobus Verhoeff in 1969.People can use this VID instead of Aadhaar Number for authentication or KYC Services. Its usage is similar as Aadhaar Number.Agencies are not permitted to use VID for de-duplication.VID is revocable and after a specific validity period it get replaced with a new one.Till date, UIDAI has issued around 119 crore Aadhaar Cards. Central govt. has taken this step after the security concerns arising for the use of Aadhar Cards. As per the reports in newspaper, Aadhaar data of around billion users was available just for Rs. 500. So, central govt. has decided to remove flaws in Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) system.References\u2014 For more details, visit the official website uidai.gov.in  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}