{"search_data": "Uttar PradeshUP PMJAY Health Insurance Scheme \u2013 Golden Cards to PM Jan Arogya Yojana BeneficiariesAll those people whose name appears in the Rural & Urban Beneficiary list in Uttar Pradesh can apply for claim settlement. Under UP PMJAY Scheme, around 6 crore people (1.18 cr families) will be benefited.UP PMJAY Health Insurance Scheme \u2013 Ayushman Bharat in Uttar PradeshPMJAY is the flagship scheme of Narendra Modi with an objective of \u201cHealth For All\u201d. The announcement to launch Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY) was made by Narendra Modi on Independence Day (15 August 2018) from Red Fort. All the beneficiaries who have been identified as per socio-economic caste census will be benefited.Around 1.18 crore families (6 crore people) in Uttar Pradesh will be given Rs. 5 lakh health insurance under Ayushman Bharat \u2013 Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY). Govt. is planning to further extend the benefits of this scheme to eligible beneficiaries left out of 2011 census. Survey is being carried out to provide benefits to UP PM Jan Arogya Yojana.Under UP PMJAY Health Insurance Scheme, daycare facility such as laser operation or dental procedures will also be covered. In addition to this, all the treatments which requires hospitalization are also be covered. Even the post hospitalization, govt. will provide financial assistance for consultation and medicine fees. A total number of 1350 serious diseases will be covered under this scheme.Golden Cards to UP PM Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY) BeneficiariesTo successfully implement the UP PMJAY Scheme, govt. is making provisions to deploy Arogya Mitras in hospitals. These Arogya Mitras will assist making beneficiaries understand the complete process for PM Jan Arogya Yojana in Uttar Pradesh. Till date, govt. has listed 274 hospitals and have received an application from 700 more hospitals who are willing to join UP PMJAY Health Scheme.On 23th September, after the Nationwide launch of Ayushman Bharat \u2013 Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY), it is expected that around 1000 medical centres will join UP PMJAY Scheme. All the UP PMJAY Rural & Urban beneficiaries will now get Golden Cards to avail treatment benefits under UP PM Jan Arogya Yojana. To successfully implement UP PMJAY Health Insurance Scheme across the state, the state has been divided into 4 zones.PM Jan Arogya Yojana is launched on the birth anniversary of Ramdhari Singh Dinkar on 23 September 2018. This Ayushman Bharat Yojana in Uttar Pradesh will ensure proper access to good quality and affordable healthcare to poor people.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}