{"search_data": "UttarakhandUttarakhand Kisan Pension Yojana Application Form PDF Download Online at socialwelfare.uk.gov.inUttarakhand Kisan Pension Yojana application form PDF download at socialwelfare.uk.gov.in, farmers above 60 years of age can now apply online to get Rs. 1,000 per month as pension, check details hereTable of Contents  Uttarakhand Kisan Pension Yojana Application Form PDF DownloadConditions to Avail Benefits from UK Kisan Pension SchemeImportant Documents to Complete Kisan Pension Scheme RegistrationUttarakhand Kisan Pension Yojana Application Form PDF DownloadUttarakhand govt. has been making different efforts to empower the farmers in every way such as Kisan Pension Scheme. As per reports, the state govt. of Uttarakhand provides Rs. 1,000 pension per month to the farmers. All the farmers who are above 60 years of age will get pension of Rs. 12,000 per annum. People can now download Uttarakhand Kisan Pension Yojana Application Form PDF through the link below:-http://socialwelfare.uk.gov.in/files/g-Kishan_Pension.pdfThe Uttarakhand Kisan Pension Yojana apply form PDF will appear as shown below:-Uttarakhand Kisan Pension Yojana Application Form PDFHere applicants can download the application form and enter all the personal details, date of birth, land details, voter ID, mobile number and other details.All the farmers who have turned 60 years of age will get Rs. 1,000 per month under UK Kisan Pension Yojana run by the social welfare department. Under this scheme, the govt. has released an amount of Rs. 7.65 crore in the first quarter installment of the FY 2020-21. Till date, the amount has reached 25,397 bank accounts of farmer beneficiaries.Conditions to Avail Benefits from UK Kisan Pension SchemeThe state govt. of Uttarakhand has also laid some conditions for the benefits of Kisan Pension Yojana. In order to get the benefit, farmer must be a resident of the state. This scheme does not discriminate on the basis of gender i.e men or women. The beneficiary farmer must be 60 years or older who is cultivating upto 2 hectares of their own land.The pension amount would be similar to the other pension scheme namely old age (vridha), widow (vidhwa) or disabled (divyang) pension of Rs. 1,000 per month. All the beneficiaries who are already receiving benefits of other pension schemes are not eligible.Important Documents to Complete Kisan Pension Scheme RegistrationIn order to get benefit of the Kisan Pension Scheme, farmers needs to submit an affidavit in respect of their land on a stamp paper of Rs. 10. The farmers must submit the following documents along with the completed application form to complete Kisan Pension Scheme Registration:-A) Bank or post office accountB) Aadhaar numberC) Voter IDD) Documents of ownership of the landAfter filling every detail in the Kisan Pension Yojana Form, it will be signed and stamped by the Gram Panchayat Development Officer and the village head. The form will be verified by Assistant Inspector General of Horticulture / Agriculture and District Horticulture Officer / Chief Agricultural Officer. The applicants can get more information can be obtained from Gram Panchayat or Tehsil.For more details, visit the official website at http://socialwelfare.uk.gov.in/  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: http://socialwelfare.uk.gov.in/, https://krishijagran.com/agriculture-world/good-news-govt-to-give-annual-pension-of-rs-12-000-to-farmers-application-procedure-terms-conditions-explained/  at  "}