{"search_data": "MaharashtraMHADA Lottery 2018 (November) \u2013 1,000 Affordable Houses in Mumbai & SuburbsMHADA Lottery 2018 will be conducted in the month of November this year. Online lottery system will be made easy and user friendly for applicants. All the houses are priced less than the original market rates.MHADA Lottery 2018 (November) \u2013 Affordable Houses in Mumbai & SuburbsConcerned Authority has addressed that the delays in obtaining occupation certificate for MHADA properties is a problem faced by lottery winners. All such pending or delayed cases will be resolved as MHADA is now been accorded the planning authority. This move will result in facilitate speedy approvals of affordable housing projects. This would avoid unwanted delays in the upcoming years. The total Area Wise Distribution of Flats is given below:-Area NameNumber of HousesCategory of PeopleWadala (Antop Hill)278Economically Weaker Sections (EWS)Reconstruction of Houses5Economically Weaker Sections (EWS)Mulund (Gavanpada)261Lower Income Group (LIG)Mankhurd114Lower Income Group (LIG)Sayan (Pratiksha Nagar)84Lower Income Group (LIG)Goregaon (Siddharth Nagar)24Lower Income Group (LIG)Ghatkopar (Pant Nagar)2Lower Income Group (LIG)Vikhroli (Tagore Nagar)7Lower Income Group (LIG)Vikhroli (Kannamwar Nagar)28Medium Income Group (MIG)Kandivali (Mahavir Nagar)172Medium Income Group (MIG)Mankhurd16Medium Income Group (MIG)Ghatkopar (Pant Nagar)2High Income Group (HIG)There are 283 houses for Economically Weaker sections, 500 for Lower Income Group, 216 for Medium Income Groups, 2 for Higher Income Group.MHADA 1000 Affordable Houses MumbaiOn 25 August 2018, lottery results were out and family of the applicants who have won 9,018 low cost flats in Mumbai Metropolitan Region were delighted. MHADA Konkan Board has organised this lottery and also comprises of houses under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) scheme.MHADA Konkan Lottery December 2018 5000 HousesDreams of several people who wants to own their house has been fulfilled. Pramila Davana, age 28 years won the lottery in her first attempt. DavaShe was born deaf and mute and has faced various difficulties in getting a job. After that she has taken admission into an animation course and secures a job. Then her family applied for house under the Physical Handicapped (PH) category and won a house in Virar. She was full of joy and was unable to tell her feelings in words. She then drew a sketch where she was happily surrounded by a lots of buildings.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}