{"search_data": "Central Swades Skill Card Online Registration / Application Form at www.nsdcindia.org/swadesSwades Skill Card Registration / Application Form at www.nsdcindia.org/swades, apply online for Skilled Workers Arrival Database for Employment Support Scheme, jobs to overseas returning citizens who returns to India under Vande Bharat MissionTable of Contents  Swades Skill Card Online Registration / Application FormSwades Skill Mapping Data of Overseas Returning CitizensSWADES Scheme by Central GovernmentDissemination of Information on SWADES Skills CardHelpline Number for Swades SchemeFrequently Asked Questions (FAQs)Swades Skill Card Online Registration / Application FormHere is the complete process to apply online and fill Swades Skill Card Registration / Application Form:-Firstly visit the official website at http://nsdcindia.org/swades/At the homepage, the Swades Skill Card Registration / Application Form will appear as shown below:-Swades Skill Card Online Application FormHere applicants can enter name, passport number, contact details, state / district of residence, e-mail ID, present employment status, work sector, job title / designation, total work experience, educational qualification.Finally, applicants will have to click at the \u201cSubmit\u201d button to submit the details in the Swades Skill Card.The SWADES Skills Card will facilitate a strategic framework to provide the returning citizens with suitable employment opportunities. This would be done through discussions with key stakeholders including State Governments, Industry Associations and Employers. MSDE\u2019s implementation arm National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) is supporting the implementation of the project. The SWADES Skill Form (online) has garnered around 7000 registrations till 2 pm June 3 since being made live on 30 May 2020.Swades Skill Mapping Data of Overseas Returning CitizensAs per the official Swades Skill Mapping data gathered so far, the top countries from where the citizens are returning are UAE, Oman, Qatar, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia. On the basis of skill mapping, it is inferred that citizens had been primarily employed in sectors such as oil & gas, construction, tourism & hospitality, automotive and aviation. The overseas returning citizens data suggests that the states which have shown highest returning labour are Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Telangana.The central govt. is conducting Swades skill mapping of overseas returning citizens under the Vande Bharat Mission. It is done to realize PM Modi\u2019s vision of security and growth for all. The data collected through SWADES Skill Card will help the citizens with job prospects and bridge the demand-supply gap.SWADES Scheme by Central GovernmentSWADES (Skilled Workers Arrival Database for Employment Support) Scheme has been launched as many Indian citizens are returning home amid Coronavirus lockdown across the world. Many of the overseas returning citizens are facing uncertainty regarding their future employment opportunities as COVID-19 spread across the globe has had a significant economic impact. It had resulted in losing of jobs of thousands of workers and hundreds of companies have been shut down globally.Lakhs of citizens have registered at the various Indian missions requesting to return to the country. Till date, more than 57,000 people have already returned to the country under Vande Bharat Mission. So the govt. has started SWADES Skill Card Scheme to ensure that people returning India due to job loss possess international skill sets and experience which can be of great value for domestic and international markets.Dissemination of Information on SWADES Skills CardThe govt. has approached MSDE to created an online portal for gathering database of these workers. In order to ensure dissemination of information on SWADES Skill Card, In-flight announcements are being made by Air India and Air Indian Express that are operating flights under the Vande Bharat Mission. Airport Authority of India and other private airports have also put up banners/standees and digital signages to ensure that all our migrants returning from abroad can be informed about this initiative.The govt. shall actively promote the SWADES Skill Card initiative through Indian Embassies / High Commissions / Consulates across different countries. The initiative will help in the deployment of returning Indian workforce matching their skill sets.Helpline Number for Swades SchemeFor more queries/support, call at 1800 123 9626 (Indian Toll Free Number). Please abide by the quarantine rules and stay safe. Welcome back to India!Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)1. What is Vande Bharat Mission ? Vande Bharat Mission is an initiative of the Government of India under which Ministry of Civil Aviation is coordinating with Ministry of External Affairs and state Governments for bringing Indians back to their homeland.2. What were the hygiene and safety measures which were taken in the flight ? Each and every function in air evacuation mission strictly adheres to the safety and hygiene protocol laid down by the Government of India and DGCA. At the time of boarding and on arrival, thermal screening of each passenger was carried out and a self declaration form with health and personal details were filled out by all the passengers. All passengers have given an undertaking to self quarantine for a minimum period of 14 days on arrival in India.3. Why is this information being collected ? In order to address the job losses due to COVID \u2013 19, the Government of India aims to conduct a skill mapping of citizens who were stuck overseas and have returned back to India through the Vande Bharat Mission. This information will be shared with Indian & Foreign private companies to facilitate future job opportunities.4. When & where will I get a job ? The information collected on this call will be shared with Indian & Foreign private companies and you will get a communication on your mobile number and email address (if available) if there is a match with any job requirement.5. Who is collecting this data ? This is an initiative of Government of India. National Skill Development Corporation is collecting this data to update a database under the Government of India.6. How did you get my number ? Your contact information has been shared by the Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India.7. What is the official website for SWADES Skill Card Initiative ? The official website to fill Swades Skill Card online application form is http://nsdcindia.org/swades/  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://www.dnaindia.com/india/report-govt-launches-swades-scheme-for-jobs-to-returning-indians-from-abroad-2826813  at  "}