{"search_data": "CentralPM Modi to Inaugurate Jaivik Kheti Portal for Farmers at Krishi Unnati Mela 2018Jaivik Kheti favors ecological processes, biodiversity and cycles as per local conditions and eliminates the use of inputs having adverse effects. PM Modi will lauch this Organic Farming Portal on 17 March 2018.Jaivik Kheti / Organic FarmingJaivik Kheti (Organic Farming) focuses on crop and livestock production and prohibits the use of pesticides, fertilizers, genetically modified organisms, antibiotics and growth hormones. Accordingly, this integrated farming scheme will ensure sustainability, increase in soil fertility and biological diversity. Henceforth, organic farming uses the natural substances while prohibiting synthetic substances.This type of farming (kheti) focuses on use of organic fertilizers such as compost manure, green manure etc. Even, jaivik kheti emphasizes use of ancient techniques like crop rotation and companion planting. In addition to this organic farming also encourages biological methods for  pest control, mixed cropping and also foster insect predators. Jaivik kheti is a combination of tradition, innovation and science.Jaivik Kheti ComponentsJaivik Kheti Portal Launch Event / Krishi Unnati Mela 2018In Krishi Unnati Mela 2018, farmers can get info. on micro-irrigation, water use technology, irrigation system, recycling process for waste water, bio-fertilizers. Moreover, farmers can gather information on equipments to be used, agro-chemicals and also can perform on the spot soil and water testing. For this, farmers will get a chance to interact with field experts and scientists in addition to innovative farmers.PM Modi will address the farmers on 17 march and will then launch Jaivik Kheti Portal for farmers. PM will also inaugurate 25 Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) and Biennial National Conference on KVK. In addition, PM will also provide National Level Krishi Karman Awards and Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Krishi Vigyan Protsahan Awards to  progressive farmers and best performing states.At the inaugural event, there will be around 600 stalls to enable farmers a direct access to latest technologies. Moreover, govt. will also set up seed selling counters to provide high quality seeds to farmers. The primary objective to launch Jaivik Kheti Portal is to double the farmers income by 2022.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}