{"search_data": "KeralaKerala Ente Koodu (My Nest) Scheme \u2013 Free Night Shelter Facility for Women & ChildrenKerala govt. launches Ente Koodu Scheme on the 8th floor of KSRTC bus terminal in Thampanoor to provide free night shelter facility to women, girls & and children below 12 years of age, lodging facility to be equipped with AC rooms, free food, full time security, television, kitchen, toilet & bathrooms and will be extended to other important cities across the stateKerala Ente Koodu (My Nest) Scheme for Women & ChildrenThe state govt. of Kerala has launched Ente Koodu scheme to ensure safety of women, girls and children. On reaching the city, all the visitors can avail night shelter facility from 5 p.m to 7 a.m. Around 50 inmates can stay at a time in the night having full AC rooms, locker facility, free of cost food, television with cable connection, washing machine, kitchen, washrooms, computer with internet facility.For this My Nest scheme, the state govt. has allocated Rs. 25 lakh which includes maintenance, recurring expenses and salary of the staff. The shelter in Thampanoor has been set up with the support of Costford and Sidco. An person can avail the AC facility for 3 consecutive nights and the night shelters have 25 bunk beds which can accommodate 50 people at a time.This Ente Koodu project is being implemented by district social justice officer in coordination with department of police, district administration and other voluntary organizations. This project will have a manager, a cleaning staff and two security personnel which will be posted at the shelter. A separate counter would be there for registration purposes.Ente Koodu (\u201cMy Nest\u201d) scheme will provide free accommodation to women and children who arrive in the city. The first such space is now open at the KSRTC bus terminal in Thiruvananthapuram. Women and children who accompany them can avail facility under My Nest Scheme between 5 p.m to 7 a.m. pic.twitter.com/orMu5iFqHY\u2014 CMO Kerala (@CMOKerala) November 8, 2018A cheque for Rs. 1.31 lakh raised by anganwadis and other shelter homes towards the CM\u2019s Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF) was handed over to the Minister on this occasion. Visit the official website for Ente Koodu Scheme complete details.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}