{"search_data": "Central Krishonnati Yojana 2018 for Farmers \u2013 Green Revolution in Agriculture Sector by CCEAKrishonnati Yojana 2018 \u2013 Green Revolution FeaturesThis scheme is specifically designed keeping in view the welfare of the agricultural sector. Green Revolution Scheme 2018 is a combination of the 11 different schemes which are as follows:- Schemes which are part of this umbrella Krishonnati Yojana \u2013 Green RevolutionName of SchemeCentral ShareDescriptionMission for Integrated Development of Horticulture (MIDH)Rs. 7533.04 croreTo promote overall development of horticulture sector, enhance production, improvement in nutritional security along with income support to farm households.National Food Security Mission (NFSM) including National Mission on Oil Seeds and Oil Palm (NMOOP)Rs. 6893.38 croreIncrease in production of rice, wheat, pulses, coarse cereals, commercial crops. This will be done by extending the area and enhancement of productivity in the identified districts. It also includes restoration of soil fertility and productivity at individual farm level to increase farm level economy. This will also increase the availability of vegetable oils and will reduce the import of edible oils.National Mission for Sustainable Agriculture (NMSA)Rs. 3980.82 croreTo promote sustainable agriculture to focus on agro ecology which includes integrated farming, effective soil health management and resource conservation technology.Submission on Agriculture Extension (SMAE)Rs. 2961.26 croreTo achieve food and nutritional security, socio-economic empowerment of farmers, institution level programme planning & implementation mechanism, forge effective linkages and cooperation among various stake-holders, supporting HRD interventions, promotion of innovative use of electronic / print media, inter-personal communication and ICT tools etc.Sub-Mission on Seeds and Planting Material (SMSP)Rs. 920.6 croreto increase quality seed production, increase in SRR, strengthening of seed multiplication chain, promotion of new technologies in seed production, processing, testing. All these activities will strengthen infrastructure for seed production, storage, certification and quality.Sub-Mission on Agricultural Mechanisation (SMAM)Rs. 3250 croreIncrease in outreach of farm mechanization to small and marginal farmers to ensure adequate power supply, promotion of Custom Hiring Centres to reduce high cost of individual ownership, creation of hubs for hi-tech and high value farm equipment and to ensure performance testing / certification at various designated testing centers.Sub Mission on Plant Protection and Plan Quarantine (SMPPQ)Rs. 1022.67 croreReduction in quality loss and yield of crops from insect pests, diseases, weeds, nematodes & rodents. The primary objective is to enhance exports of Indian agricultural productions to global markets and to adopt new plant protection strategies.Integrated Scheme on Agriculture Census, Economics and Statistics (ISACES)Rs. 730.58 croreIt aims to undertake the agriculture census, studying crop cultivation cost, undertaking research studies on agro-economic problems, improvement in agricultural statistics methodology, creation of hierarchical info. system on crop conditions / production from sowing to harvest.Integrated Scheme on Agricultural Cooperation (ISAC)Rs. 1902.636 croreTo provide financial assistance to improve the economic conditions of cooperatives and to speed up \u2013 cooperative development in marketing, processing, storage, computerization and weaker section programmes.Integrated Scheme on Agricultural Marketing (ISAM)Rs. 3863.93 croreDevelopment of agri-marketing infrastructure for grading, quality certification, establishment of central marketing info. network, integration of markets through common online platform.National e-Governance Plan (NeGP-A)Rs. 211.06 croreThis scheme was to bring service orientation to several programmes, enhancement of reach & impact of extension services, improving access of farmers to info. & services, to build, enhance & integrate the existing ICT initiatives of Centre and States.All the above mentioned schemes focuses on creation of appropriate infrastructure, reducing production cost and also on marketing of agricultural produce. Central govt. is already implementing all these schemes for the past few years. In 2017-18, govt. has decided to merge all these schemes under 1 umbrella scheme which is \u201cGreen Revolution \u2013 Krishonnati Yojana\u201d.Other Decisions in CCEA Meeting (2 may 2018)\u2014 Central govt. has launched Pradhan Mantri Jan Vikas Karyakram \u2013 Restructured Multi-sectoral Development Programme (MsDP). \u2014 CCEA has also approved continuation of Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY) till FY 2020 to provide quality health care to people. This involves setting up of new AIIMS and upgradation of govt. medical colleges (GMCs). \u2014 The central government has approved to double the Investment Limit for Senior Citizens from Rs. 7.5 lakh to Rs. 15 lakh under Pradhan Mantri Vaya Vandan Yojana (PMVVY) and now extends the PMVVY 2018 Scheme from 4 may 2018 to 31 March 2020. This scheme will enable citizens above 60 years of age to get up to Rs. 10,000 as monthly pension \u2013 View Details  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}