{"search_data": "Andhra PradeshAP Surya Shakti Scheme to Setup Rooftop Solar Panels on Subsidy for Homes in Guntur AP Surya Shakti Scheme 2019 registration at mee seva centers (application fees Rs. 50) in Guntur, apply for rooftop solar panel on subsidy at just Rs. 10,000, A1 & B1 domestic consumers to get photovoltaic units for homesAP Surya Shakti Scheme Registration for Rooftop Solar Panel SubsidyAll the individual consumers can install rooftop solar panel units, but for this AP Surya Shakti Scheme Registration is required. People can now go to the nearest Mee Seva Centers and have to register their name. The application fees for name inclusion in Rooftop Solar Panel Subsidy Scheme in AP is Rs. 50. All the solar units which comes at cost of around Rs. 60,000 in open market would be provided at subsidized rate of just Rs. 10,000.Eligibility to Apply for Rooftop Solar Panel Subsidy Scheme in APIn order to install the above mentioned subsidized solar units, consumers need to provide 100 square feet shadow-free area on the rooftop of their buildings. After registration at Mee Seva center and payment of application fees, feasibility report is also required. The rooftop solar panels unit will be granted only after a physical inspection and submission of the feasibility report. APSPDCL will also take care of the maintenance of PV (photovoltaic) units for 5 years free of cost.The rooftop solar panels on subsidy will only be provided to 1 KW capacity users. Moreover, the solar unit would not be exclusively granted for water motors or penthouses. Discom has already entered into an MoU with 3 companies to set up rooftop solar units in select cities of Andhra Pradesh including Guntur city. The name of 3 companies are \u2013 Rays Power Experts Private Limited Rajasthan, Junna Solar Systems Private Limited Hyderabad and Sun Sine Solutions Private Limited Chennai.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: http://www.newindianexpress.com/states/andhra-pradesh/2019/jun/17/andhra-pradesh-houses-can-now-avail-rooftop-solar-units-1991268.html  at  "}