{"search_data": "Central Revised DDRS Scheme 2018 \u2013 Deendayal Disabled Rehabilitation SchemeRevised Deendayal Disabled Rehabilitation Scheme \u2013 DDRS 2018The revisions made in the DDRS Scheme are as follows:-Govt. will now provide financial assistance under the following model projects:-Pre-School and Early Intervention and Training.Special Schools for Person with Intellectual, Hearing, Speech and Visual Disabilities.Projects for children suffering from cerebral palsy.Rehabilitation Purpose of Leprosy Cured Persons.Half Way home of Psyco-Social Rehabilitation of treated and controlled mentally ill persons.Home based rehabilitation and home management.Community based rehabilitation programmes.Low Vision Centers.Human Resource Development.Total cost including the rates of honorarium of project staff is now increased to 2.5 times the existing rates.DDRS grant to NGOs / Implementing Agencies is now 90% of the amount as per cost norms of ddrs scheme. However in certain specified areas, NGOs will get 100% amount.If infrastructure is present, there is no limit on the yearly increase of total number of beneficiaries. See complete Revised Cost Norms of DDRS Scheme 2018 / GuidelinesGovt. will now implement this scheme through e-Anudaan Portal ngograntsje.gov.inDDRS Scheme Online ApplicationAll the application for revised ddrs scheme 2018-19 are only invited through this portal.Processing and sending recommendations by the state govt. has been simplified.For complete details of the schemes, please see \u2013 Revised DDRS Scheme 2018-19Till date, around 44,000 Persons with Disabilities have been trained and learned various skills to get jobs. Now central govt. has revised the target to train 5 lakh PWDs till the end of FY 2018. This is a next step to achieve the target of skilling 25 lakh PWDs till 2022.For Empowerment of Disabled, central govt. is working in co-ordination with other stakeholders to successfully implement schemes for PWDs. For more details, visit the official website http://disabilityaffairs.gov.in/content/page/ddrs-scheme.php  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}