{"search_data": "West BengalWest Bengal Banglar Gorbo Mamata Campaign 2020-21 [Bengal\u2019s Pride CM Mamata Banerjee]West Bengal CM starts Banglar Gorbo Mamata Campaign 2020-21, 75 day mass outreach programme to make people realize Bengal's pride CM Banerjee after Didi Ke Bolo campaignWest Bengal Banglar Gorbo Mamata Campaign 2020-21West Bengal CM has started Banglar Gorbo Mamata Campaign stating that she herself is the Bengal\u2019s pride. This is done keeping in eye the upcoming elections in the state. People must know that how she is working to ensure communal harmony, growth, development and other aspects for welfare of the state. Various schemes had been launched since she became the CM of the state. These includes schemes like Kanyashree, Rupashree Prakalpa, Karma Sathi Prakalpa, Aikyashree Minority Scholarship, Bandhu Prakalpa, Jai Johar, Yuvasree, Krishak Bandhu etc.Accordingly, CM Mamata Banerjee is committed to the welfare of West Bengal people and she is their pride. These initiatives covers a large section of the state\u2019s population like girls, senior citizens, minorities, youths, farmers and other needy ones. Moreover, CM had earlier launched a helpline number and website as another Didi Ke Bolo mass outreach programme. In that scheme, she herself listened to the needs and complaints of the people.So, CM Mamata Banerjee wants to make people realize that she is the one who is fully thinking for people\u2019s welfare. So, another 75 day Banglar Gorbo Mamata Campaign has been launched. This initiative is based on the advice of the poll strategist Prashant Kishor who was appointed by the TMC after its Lok Sabha election reverses.The previous outreach programme Didi Ke Bolo (Tell Didi) had received huge response in its 1st month with more than 10 lakh people registering their grievances.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/politics-and-nation/tmc-launches-new-mass-outreach-campaign-banglar-gorbo-mamata/articleshow/74437218.cms  at  "}