{"search_data": "CentralDriving Training Centre Scheme for Driver Skills & Employment by Central Govt.Table of Contents  Driving Training Center Scheme Application FormDriving Training Centre Scheme \u2013 Objectives & ConceptNationwide Driving Training Centre Scheme \u2013 FeaturesImportant DatesReferencesDriving Training Center Scheme Application FormMinistry of Road Transport and Highways is inviting application forms for DTC Scheme. All the candidates will have to fill the application form to get financial assistance for setting up Driving Training Center.Candidates can download application Form through offline mode in notification as given below:- Driving Center Scheme Official NotificationAccordingly, Driving Training Center Scheme Application Form will appear as shown below:-Driving Training Centre Scheme Application FormMoreover, candidates can also download the Authorization Certification for DTC Scheme through the official notification as specified above.Furthermore, candidates must submit these application forms in the specified timelines to seek financial assistance.Driving Training Centre Scheme \u2013 Objectives & ConceptDTC Scheme is launched by central govt. in order to achieve the following objectives:-To provide financial support to private participants for setting up of Driving Training Centers.Accordingly, to provide high level training to commercial vehicle drivers to improve roads and environment safety.Driving Training Center (DTC) is a skill development initiative which consists of physical infrastructure (land, simulators, vehicles, workshops). Under this scheme, govt. will provide skill training compatible to the standards of National Skill Qualification Framework (NSQF).Nationwide Driving Training Centre Scheme \u2013 FeaturesThe important features and highlights of this schemes are as follows:-Central govt. will make use of latest technology like Driving Simulators for driver\u2019s training.Subsequently, DTC Scheme will consists of driving tracks with sensors.Accordingly, trainees can mark their attendance through use of Biometric System.Under this scheme, govt. will use Light Motor Vehicles (LMV) and Heavy Motor Vehicles (HMV) for training purposes.Moreover, govt. will provide financial assistance to open Driving Training Centers. However, priority is being given to open training center in Kaushal Vikas Yojana centers of the government.Furthermore, RTO can use the nearest center to test the skills of a driver before grant of Driving Licence (DL).Nationwide Driving Training Centre SchemeImportant DatesThe last date to submit first set of applications is 30 April 2018. Central govt. will give approval to the beneficiaries before 31 May 2018. Afterwards, candidates can fill the form regularly on the quarterly basis. The last date for filling application form is 30 November 2018 as it will take around 1 year to complete the project.All the candidates will have to complete the project till 31 December 2019. The last date to obtain the financial assistance is 31 March 2020.References\u2014 For complete details of Driving Training Center Scheme, please see the official notification as specified above. \u2014 For any further assistance, visit the official website \u2013 http://morth.nic.in/  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}