{"search_data": "GujaratGujarat Free Ration Scheme 2020 for 60 Lakh APL Families in Coronavirus (COVID-19) LockdownGujarat govt. Free Ration Scheme 2020-21 to benefit 60 lakh APL 1 families, all RC holders to get 10 kg wheat, 3 kg rice, 1 kg pulses, 1kg sugar free to tackle Coronavirus (COVID 19) pandemicTable of Contents  Gujarat Free Ration Scheme 2020-21Need for Free Ration Scheme for APL-1 FamiliesTimelines for Free Ration Distribution in GujaratGujarat Free Ration Scheme 2020-21Gujarat govt. on 8 April 2020 announced to provide free ration to around 60 lakh above poverty line (APL) families which are not covered in National Food Security Act (NFSA). This decision was taken in the cabinet meeting held under the supervision of CM Vijay Rupani. Each APL-1 card holder family will get the following items free of cost.:-10 kg wheat3 kg rice1 kg pulses1 kg sugar The state govt. has also distributed free ration to around 65 lakh families holding either priority ration cards or Antyodaya ration cards. The distribution of essential food commodities under Gujarat Free Ration Scheme 2020-21 will be done through fair price shops. This scheme will ensure that poor who depends on daily wages for livelihood are not affected by 21 day nationwide lockdown due to coronavirus outbreak.Need for Free Ration Scheme for APL-1 FamiliesThis scheme will ensure that buyers will not have to line up in front of ration shops to buy monthly ration. People will not have to purchase food items for the month of April. With the entire country under lockdown, Gujarat govt. has taken this important decision for poor families. There are several APL-1 ration card holder families who needed free ration but were denied as their name was not included in NFSA beneficiaries list.Around 60 lakh families or 3.25 crore individuals holding ration cards will get food items under Free Ration Scheme in Gujarat. This includes 10 kg wheat and 3 kg rice per person and 1 kg of pulses, sugar and salt per family free of cost. The chief minister said his government is concerned about the state\u2019s poor families and will continue to take decisions to ensure they do not face hurdles during the lockdown.ALSO READ: Check Name in Gujarat Ration Card ListTimelines for Free Ration Distribution in GujaratThe date of distribution for free ration scheme in Gujarat would be decided later. The state govt. of Gujarat has decided to bear the entire cost of the scheme. CM urges that only those families who are in crisis and need food grains should avail govt\u2019s scheme. Those who are well-to-do should only allow the needy to avail the scheme.As works have been closed for 21 days, poor families earning daily livelihood face great problems. CM said that the sensitive government understands this and will take more such decisions in future so such people do not face face much hurdle. CM Vijay Rupani also requested people to stay indoors for 21 days. Gujarat govt. has so far reported 241 cases of Coronavirus and 17 deaths due to COVID-19. The entire state is under lockdown.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/ahmedabad/lockdown-gujarat-to-provide-free-ration-to-60-lakh-apl-families/articleshow/75048712.cms  at  "}