{"search_data": "Central India Post Payments Bank (IPPB) \u2013 Open Savings / Current Account Online at ippbonline.comTable of Contents  India Post Payments Bank (IPPB) \u2013 Complete DetailsHow to Open a Regular Savings / Current Account in IPPBIPPB Services \u2013 Boost to Banking ServicesIndia Post Payments Bank (IPPB) \u2013 Complete DetailsFrom 1 September 2018, IPPB branches are opened across 650 districts today to achieve this financial inclusion. PM said that postman has been seen as a respected, trusted and accepted person in any village. Govt. is focusing on making reforms to existing frameworks and structures in accordance with changing times. Now around 3 lakh postman will deliver banking services to the people at their doorstep.IPPB India Largest Payments BankThis move is to resolve the problem in banking sector which exists due to indiscriminate loan advances. Existing loans are being reviewed and a professional approach has been adopted. PM Modi said that the central govt. has also approved Fugitive Economic Offenders Bill to take strict action against bank defaulters. Moreover, around 13 lakh crore Mudra Loans have already been disbursed to the youths of poor and middle class to create self employment.India is consistently advancing on the path of development and excels at World level. This could be seen through the best ever performance of India at Asian Games. India is the fastest growing economy and is also eradicating poverty at a fast rate.Postman Banking Services Doorstep IPPBInitially, there will be 3250 customer access points and 3,00,000 dak sevaks to provide financial services to every home, every farmer and every enterprise in villages. Govt. is also taking various steps for the welfare of dak sevaks and has accepted long pending demand of increasing salary.India Post Payments Bank IPPB DetailsIPPB shall reach over 1.5 lakh post offices across the country till December 2018. Now we are telling you how to open a regular savings or current account in IPPB. IPPB facilitates Aapka Bank, Aapke Dwaar.How to Open a Regular Savings / Current Account in IPPBThe main objective is that \u201cEvery customer is important, every transaction significant and every deposit valuable\u201d. This will ensure receiving money in fastest possible manner, save money for loved ones or investing for bright future.People can visit the official website ippbonline.com. Then go the \u201cProducts\u201d section and then click the \u2018Savings Account\u2019 to open Savings bank account and \u2018Current Account\u2019 link to open the a new Current Account.The main features of the regular savings / current account in IPPB are Instant account opening at your doorstep or post office counters, Aadhaar based Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT), Simple & secure, Instant, 24\u00d77 money transfer, Hassle free cash withdrawals and deposits, Convenient way to pay your bills, Simple, affordable and reliable services.IPPB Services \u2013 Boost to Banking ServicesPeople can avail various types of services at India\u2019s Post Payments Banks which includes:-Doorstep BankingMobile BankingPhone Banking (IVR/Call Center)SMS BankingMissed Call BankingPost Office CountersIndia Post Payment Bank Doorstep BankingAll the candidates can even download the mobile app for India\u2019s Post Payments Bank (IPPB). For more details, visit the official website https://ippbonline.com/  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}