{"search_data": "KarnatakaArogya Karnataka \u2013 Universal Health Coverage Scheme (UHC Card for Cashless Treatment)People can avail primary, secondary as well as tertiary hospitalization benefits under this scheme. For this scheme, Karnataka govt. has allocated a budget of Rs. 1500 crore and has launched this scheme on 2nd March 2018. Moreover, the cost of Arogya Karnataka Scheme is Rs. 2000 crore and the state govt. will implement this scheme from 5 March 2018 in all govt. hospitals.Karnataka Universal Health Coverage (UHC) Scheme / Arogya KarnatakaThe important features and highlights of Arogya Karnataka Scheme (Karnataka Budget 2018-19) are as follows:-This scheme is applicable for all people in Karnataka and is not dependent on their income.Subsequently, the primary objective of UHC Scheme is to ensure \u201cHealth For All\u201d.Accordingly, people can avail cashless medical treatment in any govt. hospital without an maximum limit of expenditure. In addition to this, aarogya karnataka scheme will also remain applicable to other govt. empaneled hospitals.Karnataka Govt. will issue UHC Cards to all families / individuals to enable them to avail the benefits of this scheme. Moreover, govt. will issue separate Health Cards to people who are suffering from non-communicable diseases.Various department such as Rural Development and Panchayati Raj, Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) and Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) dept will participate to successfully execute Arogya Karnataka Scheme.Karnataka govt. will take every possible step to ensure that patients would receive tertiary care facilities in govt. hospitals. This will reduce dependence of people on private hospitals for surgeries and other utilities.Arogya Karnataka SchemeUnder this health scheme, people will have to firstly go to government hospital. In case the treatment is not available in govt. hospital, only then on the recommendation of doctors, people will get referred to private hospitals. Accordingly, state govt. will reimburse the expenditure amount to the private hospitals through Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust (SAST). In addition to this, people will have to make declaration that the person is not a beneficiary of any other govt. health scheme.Arogya Bhagya Scheme is an after effect of National Health protection Scheme announced by the Modi govt. which ensures \u201cHealth For All\u201d. Furthermore, Karnataka govt. is likely to implement this scheme from 23 February 2018.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}