{"search_data": "CentralCGHS Beneficiaries will now get Treatment at Private Hospitals without Referral LetterTable of Contents  Need to Change Rules for CGHS BeneficiariesNew Order for CGHS BeneficiariesFacilities under Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS)ReferencesNeed to Change Rules for CGHS BeneficiariesPreviously, central govt. employees / pensioner or their dependents have to take prescription of the CGHS Medical officers to undergo treatment at the CGHS em-paneled private hospital. The whole process was difficult as the individual has to firstly consult a local dispensary. Afterwards with the permission of specialist, candidates have to complete the paperwork to avail treatment.According to the data of Health Ministry, there are a total number of 949 general hospitals in India which includes dental and eye care hospital. Subsequently, there are 118 general hospitals, 104 eye care and 52 dental care hospitals in Delhi alone. In addition to this, Delhi also has 61 diagnostic centers under CGHS category.So to ease the process of getting treatment, there was a need to change the existing rules. So, the Health Ministry has decided to change the rules to simplify the whole process.New Order for CGHS Beneficiariesa) According to the new order, government employees must enclose prescription of government specialist / CGHS Medical officer (original) for submission of medical claim to the concerned ministry / department / office for reimbursement. b) The job of the CGHS medical officer / government specialist will not refer the candidates to particular hospital by name. Subsequently, they will specify the treatment procedure and have to mention \u201creferred to any CGHS em-paneled center\u201d.Facilities under Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS)Under the CGHS and OPD treatment, the facilities available are as follows:-Issue of medicinesConsultation from specialists at various polyclinics / government hospitals.Facility of Indoor treatment at several government and em-paneled private hospitalsInvestigations at the diagnostic centers.According to Health Ministry, central govt. will provide cashless treatment to the pensioners and other eligible beneficiaries. Subsequently, all the patients admitted in emergency in private hospitals will get reimbursement of expenses. Furthermore, central govt. will also provide reimbursement of expenses for purchasing hearing aids, artificial limbs and appliances.References\u2014 To see the Central Government Health Scheme in detail, please click the link given below:- Central Government health Scheme (CGHS)  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}