{"search_data": "OdishaOdisha Agriculture Entrepreneurship Promotion Scheme 2018 to Boost Rural EconomyOdisha Agriculture Entrepreneurship Promotion Scheme (AEPS) 2018 to groom at-least 1,000 rural AEs in the next 3 years launched at the Make in Odisha Conclave, Organic Farming Policy also approved to bring 2 lakh hectares of land under organic farmingTable of Contents  Odisha Agriculture Entrepreneurship Promotion Scheme 2018Odisha Organic Farming PolicyMake in Odisha Conclave \u2013 MoU SignedOdisha Agriculture Entrepreneurship Promotion Scheme 2018This Agri Entrepreneurship Promotion Scheme (AEPS) will help small land holders in their cost reduction, better production and more profit. Even the AEs can earn income ranging from Rs. 2 lakh to 6 lakh per annum. Agriculture Promotion and Investment Corporation of Odisha (APICOL) will set up a project monitoring unit to design, plan, implement and monitor this scheme.As per the reports from the sources, the financial implications of the AEPS scheme are expected to be around Rs. 18 crore. According to the scheme, all the candidates in the age group of 18 to 45 years will be eligible to become AEs. Preference would be given to women and also those having one acre of land and 2000 sq. ft constructed area for taking up the activities.Odisha Organic Farming PolicyCM Naveen Patnaik has released the Odisha Organic Farming Policy to boost organic farming output in the state. This policy would bring 2 lakh hectares of land under organic farming within 5 years.CM @Naveen_Odisha launched Odisha Organic Farming Policy to bring over two lakh hectares under organic farming within five years. He added that the sustained effort has resulted highest growth in agriculture sector and new farming policy will give further impetus pic.twitter.com/SIO03Gf0aD\u2014 CMO Odisha (@CMO_Odisha) November 14, 2018Launching Custom Hiring App, CM said that it would help deliver various services at farmer\u2019s doorstep and further empower them. He added that Odisha is pioneering state in direct transfer of benefits and in leveraging technology to empower farmers.Make in Odisha Conclave \u2013 MoU SignedThree Memorandum of Understanding (MoUs) were also signed during the Make in Odisha Conclave which are as follows:-The state has signed MoU with NABARD for formation of Farmer Producer Organisations to collectively leverage their production and marketing strength.Odisha govt. has signed an MoU with National Seeds Corporation to produce high quality seeds in the state to boost agriculture productivity.Another MoU was inked with Indian Institute of Millets Research to support Odisha Millets Mission. This will provide support services on technology development, value addition and establish centre for excellence on millets in Odisha.CM said it will further enhance farmers\u2019 income as Odisha being the only state to double farmers income in real terms in a decade. CM Naveen Patnaik thanked industry captains and delegates from 19 countries for overwhelming response that attracted investment intent of Rs. 4,19,574 crore across 15 sectors with a potential to generate 5.91 lakh jobs.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}