{"search_data": "Arunachal PradeshDeen Dayal Upadhyaya Swavalamban Yojana Startup Loan Scheme \u2013 Application Form & DetailsTable of Contents  Application Forms for Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Swavalamban YojanaDetailed Project Report Under DDUSYHighlights of Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Swavalamban YojanaApplication Forms for Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Swavalamban YojanaThe application forms for Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Swavalamban Yojana can be filled only through the offline mode. Below is the step by step guide on how to fill application forms to avail startup loan subsidy under the Swavalamban Yojana.STEP 1: Registration under Standup India is not required while submitting the application form to DLSC (District Level Selection Committee). However, after approval from SLSC (State Level Selection Committee), candidates have to register with Standup India Scheme. STEP 2: The candidates can download the application form of DDUSY from the official website at http://itanagar.nic.in/scheme. STEP 3: Click on the below given link to download DDUSY application form in PDF formatDownload Application FormSTEP 4: Fill all the mandatory details in the form and submit application form in the Office of ADC, HQ. STEP 5: After submitting the form, the candidate will obtain an acknowledgement of receipt from the office of ADC, HQ. STEP 6: All the received application forms will be submitted to DLSC before 25th of every month. STEP 7: The District Level Screening Committee (DLSC) will forward the application form to the State level Screening Committee (SLSC). The SLSC will screen the proposal on every 1st Monday of the month. STEP 8: Now, after approval from both the committees, the candidate can submit their proposal for loan in any bank of state.Detailed Project Report Under DDUSYA detailed project report has to be prepared for applying under the scheme for startup loan. Below is the link to see the minimum requirements for the detailed project report.DPR Minimum RequirementsHighlights of Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Swavalamban YojanaBelow given are the main features and highlights of the DDUSY scheme:-The government will provide loan from Rs. 10 lakh upto Rs. 1 crore to set up small and medium enterprises. This amount will not include the cost of land and building.The government will provide 30% back-ended capital investment subsidy for enterprises. Women will get additional 5%  interest subsidy annually for setting up enterprises provided the loan does not become NPA.The candidate has to contribute at least 10% amount of the total cost of the project by himself/herself. The candidates who contribute greater portion will get preference from the government.The candidates can take loan from any bank of the state but the approval of SLSC is imperative.The interested candidates can download the notification PDF and guidelines of DDUSY scheme from the following links Notification Guidelines  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}