{"search_data": "GoaModified Goa Laadli Laxmi Scheme \u2013 Application Form / Eligibility & DetailsGoa Laadli Laxmi Scheme eligibility criteria modified, income limit now Rs. 8 lakh p.a, apply online & fill Ladli Lakshmi Scheme online application form to get assistance of Rs. 1 lakh to bear marriage expensesTable of Contents  Modified Goa Laadli Laxmi Scheme 2019 \u2013 Complete Details1. Goa Laadli Laxmi Scheme Online Application Form 20192. Goa Ladli Laxmi Scheme Eligibility / Income Limit ModifiedGoa Ladli Lakshmi Scheme BackgroundModified Goa Laadli Laxmi Scheme 2019 \u2013 Complete DetailsLaadli Laxmi Scheme in Goa aims to erase the general perception that birth of a girl in the family is a burden on her parents which leads to a tendency of female foeticide. So to curb this menace, the state govt. has launched Ladli Laxmi Scheme. The complete details of the modified scheme are as follows:-1. Goa Laadli Laxmi Scheme Online Application Form 2019All the interested girls or their parents can fill the Goa Laadli Laxmi Scheme Online Application Form to avail the scheme benefits through the link given below:-Goa Laadli Laxmi Scheme Application ProcedureThe Goa Ladli Laxmi Scheme Online Application Form will appear as shown below:-Goa Laadli Laxmi Scheme Online Application Form2. Goa Ladli Laxmi Scheme Eligibility / Income Limit ModifiedPreviously, financial status of parents of the girls was not taken into account but as per the modified Laadli Laxmi Scheme guidelines, the income of the parents of the girls will be taken into account. The new condition states that the fixed annual income limit of girl\u2019s parents must not exceed Rs. 8 lakh per annum. This condition is now made applicable to all the girls who are born either in the state or outside the state.Goa Ladli Lakshmi Scheme BackgroundGoa government has made amendment in the Laadli Laxmi Scheme to extend its benefit to the daughters of the state or central govt. employees. All the employees must produce their service certificate of 25 years issued by HOD (head of dept.). The beneficiary girl must be born in Goa and must have studied upto Class 10th in Goa.The Laadli Lakshmi Scheme in Goa to give Rs. 1 lakh to girls above 18 years of age to meet their marriage expenses was firstly implemented in FY 2012. The main objective of Ladli Laxmi Scheme in Goa aims to empower girls to meet their educational and other expenses on attaining the 18 years of age. Furthermore, this scheme will improve the female sex ratio in the entire state of Goa.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: ladlilaxmi.weebly.com  at  "}