{"000-section": {"000-title": "West Bengal Karma Sathi Prakalpa Scheme 2020 Apply Online Form \u2013 Rs. 2 Lakh Loan for Unemployed"}, "001-section": {"000-title": "West Bengal govt. invites WB Karma Sathi Prakalpa Scheme 2020 registration / application form, unemployed apply online to get Rs. 2 lakh loan, 1 lakh jobless youths to benefit every year for employment generation projects, Rs. 500 crore sanctioned for this major self employment scheme to create job opportunities"}, "002-section": {"000-title": "West Bengal Karma Sathi Prakalpa Scheme Apply Online Form", "001-normal": "Just like loan application forms under various govt. schemes, the state govt. of West Bengal will also invite Karma Sathi Prakalpa Apply Online Form. For this purpose, the state govt. will invite Karma Sathi Prakalpa online registration form at official website of WB state Cooperation dept. or may launch a new dedicated portal. As soon the apply online process begins, we will update it here. WB govt. has already sanctioned Rs. 500 crore to make urban unemployed youths self dependent.", "002-normal": "As per the proposal, around 3 lakh youths would be brought under Karma Sathi Prakalpa Scheme over the next 3 years. Each year, West Bengal govt. will provide loans of upto Rs. 2 lakhs to more than 1 lakh youths. Loans would be provided through Co-operative banks. Jobless youths can avail this facility to setup small manufacturing and trading activities.", "003-normal": "The officials of the WB Cooperation department have already started taking necessary steps for proper execution of Karma Sathi Prakalpa Scheme. The new employment generation projects will help in ensuring the means of livelihood for the unemployed youths in the urban part of the state. At present, there are many scopes present for self employment generation and Karma Sathi Prakalpa will enable youths to take a step ahead in taking up projects to stand on their own feet.", "004-normal": "Mamata Banerjee led West Bengal govt. has taken many initiatives in the past 9 years to ensure generation of job opportunities. In addition to this, such initiatives to provide financial assistance are helping youths to take up their own projects. WB Cooperation dept. is already providing required support to self help groups which helps in improving economy in both rural and urban parts of state. Now the unemployed youths in the urban areas would be benefited with Karma Sathi Prakalpa Scheme.", "005-normal": "Source / Reference Link: http://www.millenniumpost.in/kolkata/state-govt-sanctions-rs-500-crore-under-karma-sathi-prakalpa-400535"}}