{"search_data": "OdishaOdisha KALIA Scheme Beneficiary List 2019-20 (District Wise) PDF Download @ kalia.odisha.gov.in Odisha KALIA scheme list of beneficiaries 2019-20 available at new kalia.odisha.gov.in, farmers can find name online or download gram panchayat wise 1st, 2nd, 3rd phase beneficiary list of Kalia Yojana in PDF formatOdisha KALIA Yojana New Beneficiary List 2019-20 PDF DownloadBelow is the complete procedure to check name online in the KALIA Scheme 3rd phase list of beneficiaries or download Kalia Yojana beneficiary list for third phase to find name manually:-Firstly visit the official website kalia.odisha.gov.inAt the homepage, click at the \u201cBeneficiary List\u201d option in the header.Direct link \u2013 https://green.kalia.co.in/BeneficiaryKalia.aspxAfterwards, KALIA Scheme beneficiary List of farmers 3rd Phase will appear as shown below:-Odisha Kalia Yojana List 2020Here candidates can enter the \u201cDistrict name\u201c, \u201cBlock / ULB Name\u201d and \u201cGram Panchayat (G.P.) and then click at the \u201cView\u201d button to open the Kalia Scheme gram panchayat wise (district wise) list of beneficiaries as shown below:-Odisha Kalia Yojana List 2020 District WiseIn this there are 2 columns, 1st is for small and marginal farmers and 2nd is for downloading landless agricultural labourers list. People can click at the download link in the front of the either of download option to open the Kalia Scheme Gram Panchayat Wise list of beneficiaries:-Odisha Kalia Yojana New List PDFCandidates can download this Kalia Scheme gram panchayat wise list of beneficiaries in pdf format to find their name manually in the list.The Cooperation department officials said the KALIA Scheme list of beneficiaries for Phase 3 is even available at 6,799 gram panchayats (GP) across the State. The Cooperation dept. has urged all small and marginal farmers and landless agriculture labourers to visit the panchayat office and verify the list.Odisha govt. is also inviting Kalia Yojana Online Grievance Application Form to raise any complaints regarding Kalia Scheme. Click at Odisha KALIA Scheme 2019-20 Details to get more information about the scheme.Kalia Barta Information ServiceIn order to popularize the scheme, the state govt. has started \u201cKALIA Barta\u201d which is an innovative information service and inaugurated a designated website www.kalia.odisha.gov.inKALIA scheme brings around 92% of cultivators of the state under its umbrella with an outlay of Rs. 10,000 crore. This includes almost all needy landless cultivators , who can avail the benefits of this scheme through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) Mode. Under KALIA Yojana, govt. employees, retired persons of government wings or PSUs, income tax assessees and farmers with big land holding are not eligible.For more details on Kalia Yojana, visit the official website https://kalia.odisha.gov.in/index.html  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: kalia.co.in  at  "}