{"search_data": "Andhra PradeshAP Cattle Health Card Scheme [Livestock] \u2013 Animal Health Cards at Rythu Bharosa KendrasApply for AP Cattle Health Card Scheme 2020-21 for families identified through livestock census at Rythu Bharosa Kendras, download cattle health cards, check implementation & other details, bovines, sheeps, goats would also be coveredTable of Contents  AP Health Card Scheme Apply Process \u2013 How to Download Livestock CardsAP Health Card Scheme Implementation GuidelinesInformation in AP Animal Health CardsAP Health Card Scheme Apply Process \u2013 How to Download Livestock CardsEvery household in Andhra Pradesh which owns cattle would be given health cards under AP Cattle Health Card Scheme. Around 25 lakh such families have been identified through the livestock census conducted in FY 2019. As per the census, approx. 1.6 crore bovine and 2.37 crore sheep and goats would be covered under this service. People can apply online for cattle health cards at 11,158 Rythu Bharosa Kendras to be built. Check the process of how to download AP Livestock Health Cards.AP Health Cards would also include medical aid for newborn calves. As per an estimate, around 12 lakh calves are born in Andhra Prdaesh every year. Once the calf is born, the owner should take it to the hospital and get it registered using his card obtained under AP Health Card Scheme.In the Livestock Loss Compensation Scheme, the Andhra Pradesh govt. will provide the following compensation:- \u2014 Rs. 30,000 for loss of country bred (fine quality) bovine. \u2014 Rs. 15,000 for loss of country bred (common variety) cattle. \u2014 Amount of Rs. 6,000 to be extended upto Rs. 1,20,000 for 20 animals of each owner for loss of sheep and goat. The state govt. of Andhra Pradesh will spend Rs. 50 crore every year to extend these services.AP Health Card Scheme Implementation GuidelinesOnce the farmers gets health cards under AP Health Card Scheme, they will have to mention the following details:-BreedIf animals had any medical history or suffers from ailmentsIf female are artificially impregnatedIf the owners wish to either buy new animalsIf owners wish to either sell their own animalsAP Health Cards Livestock ApplyEach time an animal is treated, the veterinary doctors would mention treatment given to ensure next time it is brought to hospital, doctor will know its case history.AP Health Cards will contain information like exact date when the animal should be vaccinated, what measures need to be taken at home in order to prevent infections and diseases. AP govt. will extend services for stray and livestock in orphanages under special provision only if the civic bodies or animal activists came forward to adopt them.Information in AP Animal Health CardsThe following information would be provided through the AP Animal Health Cards:- A) Details of the name of the farmer/livestock owner B) Aadhaar card number C) Address D) Phone number E) Details of the cows, buffaloes, sheep and goat which are owned by the farmer AP govt. has previously launched YSR Livestock Losses Compensation scheme to help the farmers to get compensation in case of death of livestock. The Animal Health cards distribution to the livestock owners/farmers will begin on May 30 at the Rythu Bharosa centres.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: https://www.newindianexpress.com/states/andhra-pradesh/2020/feb/27/health-cards-for-cattle-in-andhra-pradesh-by-may-end-2109071.html  at  "}