{"search_data": "Central Houses under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) to have Lock-in Period of 5 YearsTable of Contents  Houses Under PMAY to Have Lock-in Period of 5 YearsGovt. Initiatives to Enhance Coverage of PM Awas YojanaProgress of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) UrbanHouses Under PMAY to Have Lock-in Period of 5 YearsSome people buy these houses to get rebate in Income Tax or to make investment in properties. There are certain apprehensions that people buy properties under PMAY Housing Scheme and sell-off their properties at higher rates to earn profits. This is because people get subsidy in the form of loans at cheaper rates to buy properties under PM Awas Yojana. Till date, the central govt. has given approval for the construction of around 54 lakh houses under PMAY. Out of these, 8 lakh houses are ready to move in for poor people.Till date, all the people can avail benefits of PMAY Scheme including those who wants to sell properties at higher rates. If people buy homes at cheaper loan rates under PMAY and sell it to any property dealer at market price, then the purpose of scheme is not served. Lock-in period will avoid and help in tackling such situation. The primary objective is to provide own-roof to every homeless person. That is why, such a huge amount of subsidy is being given to the people for construction & renewal of houses.To avoid any misuse of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, this is an important and essential step. After approval of the cabinet, govt. will soon implement this provision of Lock-in period of 5 years.Govt. Initiatives to Enhance Coverage of PM Awas YojanaCentral govt. has taken various measures, change old rules and has implemented new rules in order to increase the scope and coverage of PMAY. If the annual income of any person is upto Rs. 18 lakh, then he/ she can avail house upto 21,500 sq.ft under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY). On the purchase of houses, any person will get Interest subsidy on home loans and can save upto Rs. 2.30 lakh.In urban areas, there are various provisions for affordable housing which includes Credit Linked Subsidy Scheme. Carpet Areas of Houses has been increased under CLSS component of PMAY U. CLSS is now expanded to include the Middle-Income Group (MIG) covering two income categories:-CategoryAnnual IncomeInterest SubsidyCarpet Area (w.e.f 1 Jan 2017)MIG-IAnnual income between Rs. 6 lakh and Rs. 12 lakhInterest Subsidy of 4% for loan amount upto Rs. 9 lakhCarpet area for MIG-I is also increased from existing 120 sq.m to 160 sq.m.MIG-IIAnnual income between Rs. 12 lakh and Rs. 18 lakhInterest Subsidy of 3% for loan amount upto Rs. 12 lakh.Carpet area for MIG-I is also increased from existing 120 sq.m to 160 sq.m.Under the CLSS component of PMAY (Urban), govt. has already given a total amount of Rs. 1,806.2 crore of interest subsidy. This amount has already been credited into the home loan account of 89,154 beneficiaries during the last 3 years.Progress of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) UrbanCentral govt. aims to construct 1 crore houses under PMAY Urban (PMAY-U) over a span of 7 years i.e from 2015 to 2022. The progress of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban) is shown below:- \u2014 53.79 lakh houses have been sanctioned \u2014 29.65 lakh houses are grounded for construction \u2014 8.15 lakh houses have already been occupied Now there is a Lock-in period period of 5 years for PMAY Houses. This will avoid misuse of CLSS under PMAY Housing Scheme.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}