{"search_data": "TelanganaTelangana Rythu Bandhu Scheme Now Online \u2013 Amount in Farmers Bank Accounts Directly Telangana Rythu Bandhu Scheme now goes online, cheque distribution stopped & amount to be credited into beneficiary farmers bank accounts, increased amount of Rs. 5,000 per acre for Kharif season to be given starting from last week of May 2019Table of Contents  Telangana Rythu Bandhu Scheme 2019 Now OnlineNeed to Stop Cheque Distribution of Rythu Bandhu SchemeTelangana Rythu Bandhu Scheme BackgroundTelangana Rythu Bandhu Scheme 2019 Now OnlineTelangana govt. has made Rythu Bandhu Scheme online and govt. will now stop cheque distribution and introduce online payments. Now the state govt. will deposit Rythu Bandhu money directly into the bank accounts of the farmers. In 2018, before the assembly polls, the state govt. had organized meetings and distributed cheques to the farmers. But from FY 2019 onward, the govt. will credit this amount into bank accounts of beneficiaries.As per the official report, there are around 54-55 lakh farmers in the state of Telangana. Each farmer will get Rs. 5,000 per acre in last week of May for Kharif season and the next installment of Rs. 5,000 per acre for Rabi season would be given in month of November. The estimated amount required for Rythu Bandhu Scheme for Kharif season is Rs. 7,500 crore. For this purpose, govt. has given directions to finance department to keep money ready till specified time.Till date, there are around 5 to 6 lakh farmers who had not given their bank account details to the government. This may be due to non-interest in receiving Rythu Bandhu amounts. Those beneficiaries who are not interested in receiving this amount would save around 700-1000 crore of the government. The state govt. will not deposit the amount into the bank accounts of 54 lakh farmers in a single day. This amount would be credited in a phase wise manner.Need to Stop Cheque Distribution of Rythu Bandhu SchemeIn the high level meeting chaired by CM KCR, the officials explained the difficulty faced by the machinery at ground level in distribution of cheques to farmers. Moreover, there is a difficulty in the laborious process involved in the preparation and disbursement of cheques from the state head quarter to the village level.In view of the enforcement of Model Code of conduct during Lok Sabha election, Election Commission of India has asked the Telangana govt. to stop cheque distribution. Moreover, instructions are given to the Agriculture department to disburse the scheme benefit to the farmers accounts directly through online without any publicity.Telangana Rythu Bandhu Scheme BackgroundTelangana govt. has launched Rythu Bandhu Scheme as an investment support scheme for farmers. Initially, the state govt. has decided to provide Rs. 8,000 per year (Rs. 4,000 per acre per season) in FY 2018. But from this year i.e 2019, the state govt. will provide Rs. 10,000 per year (Rs. 5,000 per acre per season). The total requirement of fund for the implementation of the scheme in 2019-20 financial year will be Rs 15,000 crore (Rs. 7,500 cr for each Kharif & Rabi season). Last year, the government earmarked Rs 12,000 crore.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now Source / Reference Link: rythubandhu.telangana.gov.in  at  "}