{"search_data": "CentralLiveability Index Programme \u2013 Assessment of Living Standards in 116 Indian CitiesParameters for City Liveability Index ProgrammeMoHUA has setup various parameters for calculating the Live-ability Index. Subsequently, framework for this scheme includes the previous 24 Smart City Features which were present in the Smart City proposals. Accordingly, these parameters includes 79 indicators \u2013 57 Core indicators and 22 other supporting indicators.Implementing Authority has categorized these parameters in 15 different categories. These categories are specifically designed to check various socio-economic and physical aspects. The categories includes quality of roads, education, health care facilities, job opportunities, addressing of complaints, pollution levels etc. Accordingly, these are essential to check the living standards \u2013 Liveability of a particular city.Benefits of City Liveability Index ProgrammeThe important features of Assessment of living Standards are as follows:-Under this Programme, MoHUA will set up around 30 capacity building workshops which would help in understanding the \u201cUrban Data\u201d. Accordingly, these cities will get essential tools and knowledge to set up a new database for evaluation.Implementing agencies will make continuous visits to these 116 Cities to obtain all the information of cities and thus will impact the City Assessment Reports.Subsequently, MoHUA will take into account the reports of surveys of over 1 lakh citizens and other users. After assessment of reports, Ministry will assure its satisfaction report on the services.Moreover for mapping of the official data, govt. will start an \u201cEconomist Portal\u201d. In addition to this, the outputs will help the central govt. in making various policies and planning for the benefit of the common man.Furthermore, govt. will also start a framework for tracking the GDP of cities in next rounds.This type of Liveability Index Programme \u2013 Ranking System of cities will promote competition helpful in raising living standards in cities.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}