{"search_data": "West BengalWB Swapner Bhor Scheme \u2013 Job linked Training to Kanyashree Prakalpa BeneficiariesWB Swapner Bhor Scheme \u2013 Training to Kanyashree Prakalpa BeneficiariesNow all the girls are proposed to get technical training along-with their studies. This would resolve the problem of getting suitable jobs as per their talent. The state govt. is planning to provide training to girls in 2 categories \u2013 technical and mechanical. Each K2 beneficiary can apply online for any one branch, through the official website of Kanyashree Prakalpa. All the K2-level Kanyashree beneficiaries are entitled to get Rs. 25,000 but subject to fulfillment of 2 clauses:-Firstly girls should remain unmarried till the age of 18 years.Secondly girls must continue their studies.After acceptance of the application forms, each applicant would be provided counselling with regard to course contents, benefits and types of job opportunities available. Every course content would be given 300 hours of training. Each trainee would be given a daily stipend of Rs. 50 for WB Swapner Bhor Scheme. Till date, there are around 16 lakh K2 beneficiaries. All the beneficiaries residing in various districts as well as in Kolkata will be provided the training.West Bengal Kanyashree Prakalpa Scheme \u2013 BackgroundKanyashree Prakalpa aims to improve the status and well-being of girls belonging to socio-economically disadvantaged families through Conditional Cash Transfers by:-To provide incentives to girls to continue their education for a longer period of time. This would enable girls to complete secondary or higher secondary education or equivalent.To disincentivize marriage till the age of 18 years (legal age of marriage of girls). This will reduce the risks of early pregnancies, risks of maternal and child mortality and to reduce malnutrition.For financial inclusion and empowerment of adolescent girls. Govt. will transfer the benefits directly into the bank accounts of girls.Behaviour change communication strategy is adopted to create awareness about the Kanyashree Scheme, promotes adolescent friendly events, competitions and Kanyashree clubs.This scheme will allow girls to remain in schools and to gain skills and knowledge to make them economically independent.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}