{"000-section": {"000-title": "Punjab Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana E-Cards to Beneficiaries from Hospitals & CSCs"}, "001-section": {"000-title": "Punjab govt. starts generating Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojna E-Cards to eligible beneficiaries from public hospitals & common service centers (CSCs), check name in list at shapunjab.in"}, "002-section": {"000-title": "Punjab Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana E-Cards to Beneficiaries", "001-normal": "Now all the people who are eligible beneficiaries of Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana in Punjab can get their e-cards. They can take their e-cards from any public hospital or CSC. This information is provided by Health and Family Welfare Minister, Balbir Singh Sidhu after the meeting with senior officers of IFFCO TOKIO Insurance Company and Health Department.", "002-normal": "To review the functioning and progress of Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana, Punjab govt. has already appointed 22 district coordinators. These coordinators will facilitate beneficiaries at government and empanelled private hospitals. People can check their name in Punjab Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana List of Beneficiaries at shapunjab.in.", "003-normal": "Punjab Sarbat Sehat Bima scheme has received an overwhelming response from general public and thousands of people have already checked their eligibility on the official website. Moreover, govt. has started 104 helpline number to provide complete information on Punjab Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojna on 24\u00d77 days.  \n **Also Read** \u2013 [Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana Hospital List](https://sarkariyojana.com/sarbat-sehat-bima-yojana-hospital-list-punjab/)", "004-normal": "This scheme will cover health insurance of Rs. 5 lakh per family per year and ensure secondary and tertiary health services. The premium cost for 14.86 lakh SECC beneficiary families would be borne by central and state govt. in 60:40 ratio. The premium cost of remaining 28.27 lakh beneficiary families would be completely borne by the state (state treasury & departments).", "005-normal": "In order to facilitate the beneficiaries, govt. has appointed 200 Ayushman Mitras in the public hospitals of Punjab. These Ayushman mitras will ensure that all eligible beneficiaries gets benefits of health insurance scheme. In addition, around 40 official cum executives have also been appointed to manage the scheme under the State Health Agency (SHA) of Dept. of Health & Family Welfare. Furthermore, the insurance agency has setup project officies and its state and district implementation units to facilitate the beneficiaries to claim insurance cover.", "006-normal": "Source / Reference Link: shapunjab.in"}}