{"search_data": "PunjabPMJAY in Punjab \u2013 Health Insurance to 42 Lakh Families under PM Jan Arogya YojanaCabinet committee in Punjab approved to implement PM Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY) health insurance scheme in the state to cover 42 lakh families including 14.96 lakh households from SECC 2011 data, now this universal health scheme to provide Rs. 5 lakh for treatment in any govt. / private empanelled hospitalsPunjab PM Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY) Health Insurance SchemePM Jan Arogya Yojana in Punjab is a mega health insurance scheme to provide insurance coverage of Rs. 5 lakh p.a to 42 lakh families in the state. All the beneficiaries can avail treatment in any govt. / private empanelled hospitals irrespective of the family size, age and gender. The premium amount is NIL i.e the beneficiaries need not pay any premium amount to avail treatment benefits. PMJAY health insurance scheme in Punjab would put an additional burden of Rs. 300 crore on the state exchequer.My Cabinet today decided to implement PMJAY while extending it to 42 lakh families as against 14.96 lakh provided for under the original central scheme. With this we have fulfilled our promise of universal health insurance cover in Punjab. pic.twitter.com/fDJdObcuab\u2014 Capt.Amarinder Singh (@capt_amarinder) October 3, 2018All pre-existing conditions will be covered from day one of the policy and the benefit cover would include pre & post hospitalization procedures. In Punjab, this insurance scheme would cover around 1,350 medical packages including surgery, medical and day care treatments, cost of medicines and diagnostics. The entire process to avail treatment would be paperless and cashless and appointed Arogya Mitras at the hospitals would assist people in the entire process.Hospitals are not allowed to charge any additional money from beneficiaries for the treatment purpose. All the eligible beneficiaries can avail services across India, offering benefit of national portability. For information, assistance, complaints and grievances, call on the 24X7 helpline number \u2013 14555.PMJAY health insurance scheme in Punjab will enable creation of new health infrastructure in rural, remote and under-served areas, enhance patient satisfaction, improve health outcomes and will improve quality of life of poor people.Cabinet committee has also approved Sports Policy-2018 to promote sports and strengthen infrastructure. The state govt. enhanced awards for sports-persons in recognition of excellence in national and international performances.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}