{"search_data": "Central Award Scheme under Saubhagya Yojana to Facilitate DISCOMs & Power Dept. of StatesAward Scheme under Saubhagya Yojana is launched to felicitate DISCOMs / Power dept. of states & their employees to ensure achievement of 100% household electrification in their area of operations under Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana, all the states other than (excluding) Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Goa, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Punjab and Tamil Nadu are eligible to participate for this awardTable of Contents  Award Scheme under Saubhagya Yojana \u2013 CategoriesQuantum of Award to Felicitate Power Dept. / DISCOMs \u2013 Saubhagya SchemePradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana \u2013 Saubhagya SchemeAward Scheme under Saubhagya Yojana \u2013 CategoriesThe name of the states excluded from this scheme are Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Goa, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Punjab and Tamil Nadu. All the remaining States and their Discoms are eligible for this award which is to be given in 3 categories as follows:-First Category \u2013 DISCOMs / Power dept. of special category states which includes Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Tripura, Sikkim, J&K and Uttarakhand.Second Category \u2013 DISCOMs / Power dept. of other than special category states which have more than 5 lakh un-electrified households. These states includes Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Rajasthan, Telengana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal.Third Category \u2013 DISCOMs / Power dept. of other than special category states having less than 5 Lakh un-electrified households.Awards would be given to achieve 100% household electrification at DISCOM / Power dept. level of the states in the Award scheme under PM Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana. Eight states (name as above) who have already performed well and has achieved more than 99% electrification before the launch of Saubhagya scheme cannot participate in this award scheme.Quantum of Award to Felicitate Power Dept. / DISCOMs \u2013 Saubhagya SchemeIn each of the 3 above mentioned categories, there will be 2 quantum of awards which are as follows:-First Quantum \u2013 Those DISCOMs / Power dept. who secured 1st position in achieving 100% electrification by 30th November 2018 will get cash reward of Rs. 50 lakh. The Principal Secretary (energy / power) of the state will put forward a mechanism to distribute this cash prize amongst employees. Out of this amount, 20 lakh would be given to that division which has highest number of household electrified. Certificate of appreciation will also be given to 5 officials of concerned DISCOM / Power dept. of any level from managing director to lineman which are to be nominated by the Principal Secretary.Second Quantum \u2013 This includes cash award of Rs. 100 crore which would be given to the concerned DISCOM / Power dept. to be spent in distribution of infrastructure development in their area of operation. The principal secretary (energy / power) of the state will decide the work to be executed from this amount.Other DISCOMs / Power dept. of the states who achieves 100% household electrification by 31st December 2018 would also be given a certificate of appreciation. This will be given for 5 officials of any level from managing director to lineman who are to be nominated by the principal secretary of the state.Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana \u2013 Saubhagya SchemeUnion govt. had launched PM Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana in September 2017 to achieve the vision of universal househod electrification by 31 March 2019. This scheme was launched ensure last mile connectivity and electricity connections to all remaining households in rural as well as urban areas.After the launch of this scheme, more than 1.65 crore households have already received electricity connections. All states are consistently working to achieve the target much before the specified deadlines.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}