{"search_data": "Central NTA \u2013 NEET (Medical) & IIT-JEE Mains (Engineering) Entrance Exam 2 Times / YearNTA to Conduct NEET (Medical) & JEE Mains (Engineering) Exam Twice \u2013 See TimelinesAs per the official notification, National Testing Agency will now organize examinations conducted by CBSE. This includes National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Exam (NEET) for admission to medical courses and IIT-JEE Mains / CMAT / GMAT for entrance to engineering colleges. The important features of this decision are as follows:-Name of ExaminationApplication Forms Filling DatesExam DateJEE Mains (1st Paper)1 September to 30 September6 January to 20 January (8 sittings)JEE Mains (2nd Paper)Second Week of February7 April to 21 AprilNEET (1st Paper)1 October to 31 October3 February to 17 February (8 Sittings)NEET (2nd Paper)Second Week of March12 May to 26 MayUGC NET1 September to 30 September2 December to 16 December (2 shift)How to Appear for NEET & JEE Mains Exam for Admission \u2013 Candidates are not forced to appear in both the examinations. Applicants can decide on their own that for which exam they are going to appear. Applicants can also apply for the 2nd time in a same year to improve their marks. Moreover, all such candidates who appears twice in an year can choose the test in which they have secured higher marks. They will then get admission on the basis of that particular examination.No Change in Syllabus / Fees of JEE Mains & NEET ExamThere is No Change in the Examination fees, Syllabus. The fees and syllabus will remain same as in the previous year. The difficulty level of the Paper will also remain same. Paper will be computer based. This move of the Modi Govt. will reduce the tension of students and they will get one more chance to show their talent and performance.For Rural Students \u2013 All the students from rural areas who does not possess access to computers will be given practice training. NTA will open practice centers to enable the students to comply with the computer based test. Various Schools and Engineering Centers which have computers will be opened for every Saturday and Sunday from third week of August. Students can practice foe these tests absolutely free.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}