{"search_data": "MaharashtraChatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Shetkari Sanman Yojana \u2013 2017 (Maharashtra Farm Loan Waiver Scheme) Application FormsView the district wise list of CSMSSY 2017 applicants and list of beneficiaries on the official website of CSMSSY at www.csmssy.in or click the below link CSMSSY List of Applicant Farmers 2017 CSMSSY List of BeneficiariesTable of Contents  Farm Loan Waiver Maharashtra \u2013 Online Farmer Registration at csmssy.inEdit the CSMSSY 2017 Application FormCSMSSY or Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Shetkari Sanman Yojana Application Form Download from csmssy.inFarm Loan Waiver Maharashtra \u2013 Online Farmer Registration at csmssy.inThe eligible farmers can register themselves on the official online portal at https://csmssy.in using the below stepsSTEP 1: Visit the official website of Aaple Sarkar at https://aaplesarkar.maharashtra.gov.in/en/.STEP 2: Click on the link \u201cChatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Shetkari Sanman Yojana \u2013 Year 2017\u201d or directly click www.csmssy.in.STEP 3: A new website of CSMSSY will open after clicking the link, then click on \u201cRegister\u201d button on the right side of the page or directly click csmssy.in.STEP 4: On the new page, there are 4 steps as seen below to register as a farmer for CSMSSY farm loan waiver scheme 2017 in Maharashtra.Maharashtra Farm Loan Waiver Scheme \u2013 CSMSSY 2017 RegistrationSTEP 5: If you have Aadhar card, then click on \u201cYes\u201d button in the first step and click continue, else, if you do not have Aadhar card, clicking \u201cNo\u201d will lead you to two options. If you have already applied for Aadhar card, check its status on UIDAI website or click \u201cNo\u201d to fill all the details manually in the below prescribed application form.Maharashtra Farm Loan Waiver Online Application FormSTEP 6: If have Aadhar card, you will be required to click \u201cYes\u201d and then \u201cContinue\u201d button. You will be taken to step 2 where you have to choose authentication type form OTP and Biometric. Choose \u201cOTP\u201d for verifying details using OTP on your Aadhar registered mobile number, tick the consent box and enter your Aadhar and click \u201cSend OTP\u201d button.STEP 7: An OTP will be sent to your Aadhar registered mobile number, enter the OTP and verify it. After verification, you will be taken to step 4 in the application process.STEP 8: Fill all the necessary details and submit the application/registration form and proceed to last step.STEP 9: Your application is now complete, you will be provided some registration/application ID. Keep a note of this.Edit the CSMSSY 2017 Application FormAfter receiving a lot of feedback from the applicants, the state government of Maharashtra has made the application form editable for all the applicants. If the applicant has made any mistake while submitting the application form, it can be edited later simply by logging in the user account on the same portal at www.csmssy.in.CSMSSY or Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Shetkari Sanman Yojana Application Form Download from csmssy.inThe application for farmer registrations can also be done using the offline method by physically submitting the application forms at Aaple Sarkar Seva Kendras. The application form can also be downloaded from the official website at csmssy.in. The applicant should submit the filled application form along with the photocopies of the Aadhaar Card, Pan Card (If applicable), Bank Savings Passbook to any of the Aaple Sarkar Seva Kendra* nearby him starting 24th July, 2017.The application forms for the CSMSSY or Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Shetkari Sanman Yojana are also available at following placesa. Tehsil Office b. Collector Office c. Assistant Registrar Office d. Gram Panchayats e. Banks f. Primary Agriculture Credit Societies g. Aaple Sarkar Seva Kendra (CSC Centres)Download the farm loan waiver application formFor more details about the scheme, please visit the official website of Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Shetkari Sanman Yojana \u2013 2017 at csmssy.in.Help Desk The applicants can call at 18001025311 toll free or send an e-mail at csmssy.helpdesk@maharashtra.gov.in for any help/query related to registration procedure.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}