{"search_data": "CentralBuy Exam Warriors Narendra Modi Book Online at Rs. 100 to Encourage ChildrenTable of Contents  Buy Exam Warriors Narendra Modi Book OnlineNarendra Modi Book (Exam Warriors) \u2013 DetailsPM Narendra Modi \u2013 About the AuthorBuy Exam Warriors Narendra Modi Book OnlineThis book consists of various illustrations, activities and yoga exercises. Accordingly, NaMo book will act as a friend of the students to excel in their exams. NaMo book is available at various e-commerce websites, so people can purchase this book through the links given below:- Amazon \u2013 Exam Warrior Book (Rs. 90) Flipkart \u2013 Exam Warrior Book (Rs. 90) Paytm \u2013 Exam Warrior Book (Rs. 100) This book will serve as a great companion for students in India. This is the 5th book of PM Narendra Modi and is published by Penguin India.Narendra Modi Book (Exam Warriors) \u2013 DetailsThis book of PM Modi will encourage students to treat exam just like festivals and celebrate them. Candidates must chill and become a warrior not a worrier. This handbook will also enable students to use their time efficiently and to focus on technology and knowledge. Accordingly, candidates must work on their strengths and also play games in order to keep them fit.Revision and presentation are the most important aspects in school / board examinations. Subsequently, candidates must follow discipline and avoid cheating to become a successful in life. Candidates must not take pressure and stress which act as hindrance in their preparation and also in scoring good marks.Moreover, every child must devote some time to yoga and perform some asanas or meditation in order to increase their concentration levels.PM Narendra Modi \u2013 About the AuthorNarendra Modi is the prime Minister of India \u2013 Biggest Democracy in the world. He is a dynamic, enthusiastic and determined leader who has changes the entire political history of India. Subsequently, PM Modi is consistently working on social and economic sector reforms which results in growth and development of the county on global level.Accordingly, PM\u2019s main focus is on education sector to empower youths as India is a country having most number of youths. PM Modi is an inspirational and educational leader for billions of people. Moreover, his communications through \u201cMan Ki Baat\u201d is also very popular among masses.Exam Warriors Book is an aftermath of PM\u2019s address to students on stress management during exams in his monthly radio programme. PM Narendra Modi is the most sought leader for students and also takes immense pleasure in reading and writing.  Sarkari Yojana App - Download Now  at  "}