{"000-section": {"000-title": "MGNREGA, Kudumbashree & Life Housing Mission to be Integrated in Kerala"}, "001-section": {"000-title": "Mahatma gandhi national rural employment scheme (MGNREGA), Kudumbashree & Life housing mission to be integrated in Kerala for gathering of construction materials to ensure timely completion of housing projects"}, "002-section": {"000-title": "MGNREGA, Kudumbashree & Life Mission Integration", "001-normal": "To complete housing projects on time under Life mission, there is a huge requirement for brick and other construction materials. Trained Kudumbashree units will be in charge of conduct of building material production units which are being run by Kudumbashree. District mission co-ordinators will ensure that all the members under Kudumbashree have completed their training on time. Even these mission coordinators will ensure that all the members must also be members of employment guarantee scheme (MGNREGA) with job cards.", "002-normal": "Local bodies are entitled to allot plots for units to begin building material production units. These local bodies or Kudumbashree units shall be responsible for electrification and mechanisation of these production centers. For each brick, the state govt. will levy a handling charge of Rs. 10 on each brick. A 3rd party technical agency will be deployed to certify quality and structural stability of materials which are being produced by Kudumbashree units."}, "003-section": {"000-title": "Background \u2013 MGNREGA / Kudumbashree / Life Mission", "001-normal": "MGNREGA stands for Mahatma gandhi national rural employment guarantee act. This act came into force to provide direct supplementary wage employment for at-least 100 days to the rural poor through public works.", "002-normal": "Kudumbashree programme is a women empowerment and poverty eradication programme implemented by the state poverty eradication mission (SPEM) of Kerala. Kudumbashree is a 3-tier structure for its women community network with Neighbourhood Groups (NHGs) at the lowest level, Area Development Societies (ADS) at the middle level and Community Development Societies (CDS) at the local government level.", "003-normal": "The state govt. is going to provide affordable houses absolutely free for home-less people under Kerala Life Mission. LIFE stands for Livelihood inclusion and and Financial Inclusion.", "004-normal": "Now with the integration of these 3 schemes \u2013 Govt. will ensure that poor and home-less people will get houses, MGNREGA workers will be employed for at-least 100 days for the construction of these houses and Kudumbashree units will provide assistance in gathering construction materials and other materials essential for timely completion of these housing projects."}}